---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: fa1782569114081c593edccc894ee95cd0ade98f
title: '13'
---
## Third Party Interventions across Cultures

there still might be a hesitation to ‘‘having a say’’ because of potential conﬂicts with the broader set of community interests. In collectivist cultures, we suggest that there may be some preference for process control to rest with a respected third party who has the mandate to ‘‘do the right thing’’ with respect not only to the individuals concerned, but to the broader collective interests of the community or relevant stakeholders. Such a third party may not be close to the classic characterization of third party as a disinterested neutral. Interestingly, there is some evidence that in some collectivist cultures, there may be a preference for more power-based or directive dispute resolution procedures that a high status or authoritative third party take control over the process or decision) for the purpose of avoiding direct discussion of sensitive issues and minimizing the social disruption of a drawn-out confrontational dispute process (Leung, 1997; Tinsley, 1997; Yang, 1993).

(i.e.,

While we may see cultures with more egalitarian values encourage or allow a more open exchange of information and opinions to the third party within and across status lines (Tinsley, 2004), low status individuals in cultures with less egalitarian values may not feel comfortable with high levels of process control. In more hierarchical cultures, control over the process of dispute resolution may be viewed as the responsibility of those in a higher position, therefore maintaining or those with more knowledge or information, established hierarchies and power during the dispute resolution process (Leung & Stephan, 1998). In general, cultures high in power distance, where those of lower status accept unequal social conditions, are associated with greater tolerance of harsh treatment by authorities (James, 1993).

We might expect that desire for process control might also vary according to disputants’ level of comfort with direct confrontation in their cultural context: to ‘‘speak up’’, or at least to ‘‘speak up’’ without negative consequences. For example, evidence for the relationship between having voice and judgments of procedural fairness have been found in the United States, West Germany, France, and Great Britain (Lind et al., 1978). As well, there are greater preferences for direct information sharing in low context culture disputes and negotiations, while those from high context cultures prefer indirect methods of inﬂuencing outcomes (Adair, Okumura, & Brett, 2001; Brett, 2001). Furthermore, those who fear negative consequences in their cultural contexts (whether societal, organizational, or familial) may have little desire to directly air their own opinions or present their own evidence. In such cultural environments that discourage open airing of dissenting opinions, disputants, even when feeling strongly about an issue, may not choose to openly share information about it.

325

326

DONALD E. CONLON ET AL.

Does the Third Party Offer Suggestions, such as Possible Settlements? Suggesting settlements is a speciﬁc type of ‘‘content control’’ where ‘‘the is to be discussedy’’ intervening party attempts to determine what (Sheppard, 1983, p. 200). To the extent that the suggestions are acceptable to each disputant, this criterion has some similarity with what Sheppard (1984, p. 169) describes as ‘‘level of intervener process neutrality’’ in that the suggestions may be perceived on a continuum from being biased against a disputant, to even handed, to biased in favor of the disputant (Arad & Carnevale, 1994; Conlon & Ross, 1993). Kolb (1985) observes that some mediators, whether in the mediation process or the mediation stages of the med-arb or arb-med procedures, are ‘‘Dealmakers’’ who tend to make such suggestions, whereas others, whom she calls ‘‘Orchestrators’’, do not. She reports that Dealmakers tend to be found in public sector labor relations where strikes are usually illegal, whereas Orchestrators tend to be found in the private sector.

Fact ﬁnders more consistently recommend settlements as part of their role. These recommendations often carry substantial weight with the parties and with others who may be in a position to provide outcomes (e.g., a state legislature). However, fact ﬁnders do not have any decision control, and only serve to inform parties of the potential outcome of some future procedure if they choose to embark on it. Arbitrators in all forms of arbitration, on the other hand, do not generally provide any recommendations or offer suggestions, as their role is to allow disputants to present evidence as they wish; the third party then uses this information to make a decision.

Preferences for third party style in terms of content control may differ across cultures. In collectivist cultures, there may be expectations that the third party has a mandate to consider the wider set of community or organizational interests, and therefore, would be expected to consider a larger problem than that presented by each individual disputant (Brett, 2001). Therefore, there may be a higher preference for the third party in a collectivist culture to take on a more directive or active role in ﬁnding solutions than in a more individualistic culture. In more egalitarian cultures, we may ﬁnd that while third party suggestions for settlement are an acceptable part of the dispute resolution procedure if the settlement suggestions are perceived as fair by both parties (Conlon & Ross, 1993, 1997), disputants would be comfortable to take an active part in the creation of ideas for settlement, and may be more committed to the solution if they felt they took part in creating it (Pruitt, 1981). In hierarchical cultures, however, we may ﬁnd that lower status disputants would expect the third party as the ‘‘expert’’ or ‘‘authority ﬁgure’’ to take control of the situation and
