# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

economic relationships surrounds any aspect of organizational behavior’’ (p. 392). Considering temporal effects as environmental stimuli shaping diversity-related outcomes raises interesting questions for diversity research. In the broader management research, some studies have examined how time may shape the meaning and relevance of employee behavior (e.g., absenteeism, see Martocchio, Harrison, & Berkson, 2000) and work group processes (e.g., Gersick, 1988). One approach to understanding the effects of time is to consider how signiﬁcant events can shape behaviors in organizations. This event-based perspective on time (see Ancona, Okhuysen, & Perlow, 2001) would suggest that societal and organizational events can shape the meaning and outcomes of diversity in organizations. Consider, for instance, the salience of an African American racial identity in Xerox Corporation in the late 1960s that was triggered by local events such as race riots in Rochester, New York (where the corporate headquarters is located) as well national events such as the passing of the Civil Rights legislation. These events played a role in highlighting the distinctive African American experience outside the organization and mobilized the formation of an African American identity within the company ultimately leading the development of one of the ﬁrst caucus groups in the US employment history (Friedman, 1996). More recent national events such as the September 11th 2001 terrorist attacks may also have the power to shape diversity dynamics in organizations. While, intuitively, one might expect that inter-religious conﬂict would increase in the workplace there is some research to suggest the contrary. Studies in educational settings conducted in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks found an increase in levels of inclusion and inter-group cooperation along with renewed institutional efforts to address bias and prejudice in campus communities (e.g., Miele, 2004). Thus it is possible that certain signiﬁcant events such as a war or a national catastrophe might have an ‘‘inclusivity effect’’ and serve to minimize inter-group conﬂict and shape the outcomes of diversity within teams. Further research might help us understand in more detail how these events would shape inter-group relations in the workplace. In addition, events within organizations such as the appointment of a new CEO, restructuring and lay offs, corporate scandals, or a discrimination law suit can possibly trigger inter-group dynamics that shape team diversity outcomes.