# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

business (no pun intended). He jokes that children in school who show aptitude for music get sent to the music room, children with aptitude for art get sent to the art room, and children with an aptitude for humor get sent to the principal’s ofﬁce. Therefore, a second goal of this paper is to review the existing empirical literature on the effects of humor in organizational contexts to demonstrate why humor should be taken seriously. In the second section of this article, we will focus on three major categories of ﬁndings, including relationships between humor and creativity, humor and work performance or other performance relevant outcomes (e.g., job satisfaction), and humor and interpersonal cohesiveness. In describing these results, we will comment on the weight of evidence for causal links in each category. The third and ﬁnal goal of this article is to take a step beyond our current knowledge on humor in organizations by laying a conceptual foundation for future research on the interaction of humor and culture in organizations. This goal is motivated by the observation that organizations are becoming more and more culturally complex as a result of increasing cultural diversity within the workforces of many countries, and the ascendance of the multinational organization as an important organizational form. In addition, an inﬂuential body of cross-cultural research accumulated over the last few decades has documented the myriad ways in which culture helps to shape motivational, cognitive, and emotional processes (Triandis, 1994). Therefore, it stands to reason that culture might moderate the relationship between humor and organizational outcomes, insofar as it inﬂuences relevant motivational, cognitive, and emotional processes. In the third major section of this article, we develop predictions regarding how culture is expected to moderate the relationship between humor and important organizational phenomena.