---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c229f67cbb981dbf58449014fc13389e3211b3fd
title: '13'
---
# motivation).

As noted by Campbell (1990), determining the precise functional form of such a model is likely impossible; however, considering this sort of model does provide insights for understanding the nature of performance changes over time, particularly if one builds upon the changing subjects and changing tasks models discussed above.

Even if not determining all the speciﬁc causes of performance, one can generally specify that performance is a function of certain character- istics, some of whom are stable and some of which change with time. For example, cognitive ability is generally shown to be highly correlated with job performance (e.g., Hunter, 1986; Hunter & Hunter, 1984; Ree & Earles, 1992; Schmitt, Gooding, Noe, & Kirsch, 1984; Schmidt & Hunter, 1998) and is also shown to be relatively stable for adults over their careers (Bayley, 1949, 1955; Charles, 1953; Hertzog & Schaie, 1986, 1988; Jensen, 1980; Owens, 1953; Schaie, 1994; Thorndike, 1940). Similarly, personality has been shown to be related to performance (e.g., Barrick & Mount, 1991; Dudley, Orvis, Lebiecki, & Cortina, 2006; Hurtz & Donovan, 2000; Salgado, 1997; Tett, Jackson, & Rothstein, 1991) and also is a relatively stable individual characteristic (Costa & McCrae, 1988, 1992). Other individual characteristics related to performance change with time, such as job knowledge (e.g., Schmidt et al., 1986), job experience (e.g., Schmidt et al., 1986; Sturman, 2003), leadership (e.g., Day et al., 2004), and motivation (e.g., Kanfer, 1991, 1992). Based on any static performance model, at any point in time, job performance is at least partly determined by a function of these characteristics. This perspective incorporates aspects of the changing subjects model, as any longitudinal application of this model will show that performance over time changes because some of the causes of performance change with time. At the same time, the changing tasks model suggests that some predictors of performance change over time.

For both stable and dynamic characteristics, the functional relationship of predictors of performance can be either stable or dynamic. This leads to

63
