---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7bb0e13d7c95c6ddf31ce26a9be6cdbc63e12607
title: '13'
---
# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

psychomotor ability, cognitive ability, and experience over a six-month period. They found that psychomotor ability predicted initial performance, and cognitive ability predicted performance growth. In conclusion, while it appears that Keil and Cortina (2001) provide strong evidence that the validities of ability measures decrease with greater time lags, conﬂic- ting (but albeit cross-sectional) ﬁndings of Farrell and McDaniel (2001), along with the presence of some other exceptions from longitudinal studies and the contradictory ﬁndings with regard to assessment centers, keeps alive the question about what happens to the validity of selection devices over time.

The long history of research and debate in this area might suggest that issues of dynamic performance would be salient in the stafﬁng literature. However, selection research still often ignores the dimension of time. For example, in recent studies on stafﬁng and selection tools, time is not considered (e.g., Behling, 1998; Carlson, Connerley, & Mecham, 2002; Chait, Carraher, & Buckley, 2000; Stevens & Campion, 1999; Ryan, McFarland, Baron, & Page, 1999; Ryan & Tippings, 2004). Similarly, current texts on selection tend to devote little space to the role of time. Time may be mentioned with regard to estimating test–retest reliability (e.g., Heneman, Heneman, & Judge, 1997). The text by Gatewood and Feild (2001) does brieﬂy mention Hulin et al.’s (1990) conclusion that the validity of some measures decay with time, although the concern is quickly dismissed and there is no real discussion of the implications of performance changes. In an exception, Ployhart, Schneider, and Schmidt (2006) explicitly state that performance is dynamic, and that this has implications for validity, but that there is enough stability in performance for it to be predicted. Nonetheless, the attention devoted to the role of time remains minimal, despite that the goals of stafﬁng are to ‘‘improve organizational functioning and effectiveness facilitate the by attracting, selecting, and retaining people who will accomplishments of organizational goals. ...’’ (Ployhart et al., 2006, p. 2, emphasis added). Inherent in this deﬁnition is the passage of time. If performance is deﬁned as the behaviors that contribute to the goals of organizations, and if these behaviors change over time, then the passage of time is critical to the issue of selection.

Researchers studying job performance and time have often disagreed as to the proper interpretation of past evidence, but they all seem to agree that more research is needed into the implications and consequences of its instability (Ackerman, 1989; Barrett et al., 1985, 1989; Hanges et al., 1990) or inconsistency (Austin et al., 1989). This research should involve better conceptualizations of the outcomes being predicted (Austin et al., 1989) and
