## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

demonstrates how other humor theories (e.g., superiority theory, relief theory) represent complementary, rather than conﬂicting accounts of how humor operates (see also Lynch, 2002; Suls, 1976). A foundational premise of incongruity theory is that people hold various beliefs and assumptions about how elements within the social and physical worlds are related to one another. When a speciﬁc social and/or physical domain is evoked by a communication, other domains and phenomena that are commonly associated with it are automatically primed and made more consciously accessible within a fairly coherent expectation system. Examples of expectation systems include ‘‘scripts’’ of social interactions (e.g., the conversation you have with a desk clerk when you check in to a hotel, or the conversation with a police ofﬁcer when you are pulled over for speeding), or commonly held schemas (e.g., how bureaucratic government agencies have long lines, bad service, hassles). The humor producer essentially relies on his or her knowledge of the expectation systems held by the audience to create the experience of incongruity within the audience. This is done by systematically juxtaposing a primary expectation system with a secondary expectation system, which is elicited and unexpectedly connected with the primary system.

To illustrate, when a particular schema such as the waiter–customer interaction is elicited in a joke (e.g., ‘‘Waiter, there’s a ﬂy in my soup’’) an expectation about how the course of events should transpire is primed (e.g., ‘‘I’m sorry, let me take that away’’). For something to be humorous there must be an unexpected deviation within the elicited expectation system. One experiences pleasure from the deviation because of the somewhat sudden violation of one system (e.g., ‘‘Don’t worry sir, they don’t eat much’’), and its subsequent surprising resolution with another previously unrelated system. More speciﬁcally, the violation represented by an incongruity is brought into sharper focus when the incongruity links elements of the main script) with a second the waiter–customer expectation system (i.e., expectation system that one would not commonly associate with the ﬁrst (i.e., the size and eating habits of ﬂies). Importantly, the audience must understand how the two expectation systems are linked in order for them to be resolved. Without the resolution, the humor will fail. As another example, take the following joke:

What’s the difference between being in prison and being at work? In prison, you spend most of your time in an 8(cid:1)10 cell, at work, you spend most of your time in a 6(cid:1)8 cubicle.

Most people probably have an expectation system suggesting that incarceration is bad, and worse than freedom. It is easy to brainstorm

217

218