---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 96e2dbdd683932132d44ab182bc1a72af10cac46
title: '13'
---
# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

performance. For this reason, the deﬁnition of dynamic performance should be based on the ﬁrst deﬁnition – changes in the rank-order (or correlations) of job performance over multiple time periods – because it is the only deﬁnition that directly addresses the issue of stability (Hanges et al., 1990). Moreover, this dynamism should occur speciﬁcally for job performance(behaviors). While the same deﬁnition (i.e., changes in the rank-order) can be applied to any outcome, the deﬁnition of job performance should be consistent with the view that job performance connotes behaviors. Environmental changes that affect performance results or utility (such as changes in situational constraints), while potentially related to job performance(behaviors), should be recognized as a different phenomenon and not direct evidence of dynamic performance. With this perspective, research can easily distinguish between dynamic performance and the consequences of this dynamism, such as changes in the validity of selection devices (i.e., the second deﬁnition), changes in job performance ratings aggregated to a group-level (i.e., the third deﬁnition), changes in job performance(results), or changes in job performance(utility).

The ﬁrst deﬁnition, though, needs to be considered carefully. A correlation less than one between performance measures is not necessarily indicative of performance dynamism. Rather, correlations between performance measures over time may be affected by measurement error rather than actual changes in job performance (Barrett et al., 1985; Hanges et al., 1990; Sturman et al., 2005), and it is important to distinguish between temporal consistency, stability, and test–retest reliability (Sturman et al., 2005). Temporal consistency is the correlation between performance measures at different points of time (Heise, 1969; Sturman et al., 2005). It captures the relationship between measures of job performance but not necessarily of the true construct of performance. Test–retest reliability refers to the amount of transient error that effects ratings of job performance at different points in time (Sturman et al., 2005). For performance to be dynamic, changes must occur to the construct of performance. This has been deﬁned as stability: the extent to which the true value of a construct remains constant over time (Carmines & Zeller, 1979; Sturman et al., 2005). I thus deﬁne dynamic performance as a lack of stability in job performance(behaviors) over time.
