---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d5f956bbce064df15c50dba635ef9fc3afc9b80c
title: '13'
---
# Mediation-Arbitration

Mediation-arbitration (hereafter called ‘‘med-arb’’) consists of (1) mediation, followed by (2) arbitration if mediation fails to secure an agreement by a predetermined deadline (Ross & Conlon, 2000). The same third party serves as both mediator and arbitrator, and may use either binding or ﬁnal-offer forms of arbitration (Kagel, 1976; Brewer & Mills, 1999). The procedure is incremental: only if mediation fails to produce an agreement does the arbitration phase occur, which culminates with the third party imposing a binding settlement on the parties. This temporal arrangement matches the suggestions of many scholars (e.g., Ury, Brett, & Goldberg, 1988) who argue that dispute resolution procedures should be arranged in a ‘‘low-to-high-cost sequence’’ for the users (pp. 62–63). Others have also suggested that mediation precede arbitration because it removes less control over the ultimate outcome from the disputants (e.g., Starke & Notz, 1981). Finally, a ﬁeld experiment comparing med-arb with straight mediation found that med-arb led disputants to be less hostile and more problem-solving oriented in their behavior, though there was no difference in voluntary (mediated) settlement rates (McGillicuddy, Welton, & Pruitt, 1987). In the California Nurses Association collective bargaining in 1971, for example, med-arb was used to avert a strike by keeping communications on track and focusing parties on problem-solving (Polland, 1973).

There are examples of the med-arb procedure across a variety of cultural contexts. In civil law-oriented countries such as Germany and Switzerland, med-arb ﬁts with the expectation that an arbitrator will ﬁrst try to ﬁnd conciliation, and then decide on the appropriate way to apply laws, rules, legislation, or principles (Montaqu-Smith, 1998). The China International and Economic Trade Arbitration Commission has chosen a single-third party med-arb procedure to deal with foreign related construction disputes, reﬂecting the Chinese preference to ﬁrst try to resolve disputes through amicable mechanisms and increased understanding before the third party hands down a binding decision (Chan, 1997). In civil mediation procedures in Korea, the court appoints a mediator, who then has decision-making authority if he/she thinks the decision is not reasonable or the parties cannot

319

320

DONALD E. CONLON ET AL.

come to agreement (Woo, 1999). The lines between mediation and arbitration blur in some cultural environments, as mediation sometimes looks like arbitration, and arbitration sometimes looks like mediation. That is, a high status third party may take a very directive and potentially controlling role in resolving disputes while simultaneously taking care to maintain harmony and minimize social disruption along the way to resolution.
