## Contextual Explanations for the Positive Outcomes of Diversity

Context can also shape the positive outcomes of diversity such as creativity, innovativeness, and performance. At the omnibus level, aspects of diversity such as signiﬁcant events could foster positive outcomes by creating an inclusivity effect across various demographic groups. As we discussed earlier, signiﬁcant crises or catastrophes may serve to reduce the salience of social identity-based grouping and generate a more collective identity orientation. Such events may pave the way for facilitating the positive outcomes of diversity within work groups. Organizational events may also serve similar purpose. For example, the appointment of a minority female CEO (consider the appointment of Indira Nooyi, an Indian-born female, as the new CEO of Pepsico) may inﬂuence the status cues associated with this particular demographic within work groups so that their opinions hold greater value within work groups. Overall, these events may foster conditions for positive inter-group contact within diverse teams that can facilitate positive team outcomes.

Organizational strategy, history, culture, and demography can also jointly or independently inﬂuence positive outcomes. As we discussed earlier, organizations that have an innovation and growth-oriented strategy are more likely to value diverse perspective as well as ensure that policies and practices are in place to allow the full utilization of diverse perspectives. As we also discussed above, organizational demography and culture can reduce the salience of demographic-based social categorization and as a result reduce the negative effects of social category-based diversity in organiza- tions. This contextual factor may also lead to the expression of positive outcomes of task-based diversity such as functional or educational diversity. At the organizational level, in ‘‘multicultural’’ organizations, which are characterized by formal and informal integration, demographic attributes such as race or gender would not be associated with employment outcomes (Cox, 1993). In these settings, demographic diversity may not be predictive of process losses and provide a context wherein the positive outcomes of diversity of perspectives can be realized.

At the discrete level, team leadership can have an inﬂuence on the positive outcomes of diversity. As we discussed earlier, recent extensions of social