# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

weight of this evidence is suggestive of some kind of connection between individual humor characteristics and creativity, but the causal relationship is blurry because none of these studies examined actual expression of humor and subsequent creativity (see James, Brodersen, & Eisenberg, 2004, and Kaufmann, 2003, for a thorough discussion of the positive affect-creativity link). Other research has examined humor expression within groups, and evaluated those groups’ creative performance. For example, Holmes (2000) such as found that humor use was common in creative contexts brainstorming, and was associated with creative performance in groups. Similarly, Firestien (1990) found that groups trained in creative problem solving were more creative than untrained groups, and exhibited more humor (i.e., more laughs and smiles). However, such research also suffers from some degree of causal ambiguity, because it is unclear whether humor is in an antecedent, consequent, or simultaneous relationship with creativity. A limited number of experimental studies have been conducted that help establish the causal relationship between humor and creativity. For example, Smith and White (1965) found that humor was positively associated with creativity and effectiveness in small problem-solving groups. The most convincing experimental research, however, has been conducted by Ziv. In a series of experiments, Ziv (1976, 1983) found that students who listened to a humorous recording or watched a humorous video clip scored higher on a test of creativity than students who took the test only. In addition, students who were told to answer questions on the Torrence creativity test humorously scored higher on creativity than students in a control condition (Ziv, 1983). He suggested that such an instruction provided a cue for unconventional thinking. Two theoretical explanations for why humor might result in creativity have been proposed. One potential mechanism works by humor’s emotional mechanisms, and suggests that the positive mood brought about by humor results in decreased anxiety about searching for and voicing novel or original ideas (Ziv, 1988). Such an anxiety reduction function of humor through positive affect was also examined by Ford, Ferguson, Brooks, and Hagadone (2004), who found that women who used humor to cope with stress experienced less anxiety, which in turn increased their performance on a math test. This explanation is also consistent with the results of Smith and White (1965), who found that ‘‘defensiveness’’ was negatively associated with humor use in a small group. Generally, the inﬂuence of humor on positive affect and anxiety reduction is the basis for the belief that humor can be a stress reducer (Nezlek & Derks, 2001).

The cognitive mechanisms behind humor have also been implicated in the relationship between humor and creativity (Murdock & Ganim, 1993).