## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

humor’s effectiveness. He stresses that humor will have its most positive effects on cohesiveness when all parties to humor (i.e., the producer, audience, and butt) are members of an ingroup. This might even include humor with a disparaging tone, because it is acceptable for members of an ingroup to poke fun at their own faults and weaknesses. For example, Scogin and Pollio (1980) concluded that deprecating humor built cohesive- ness in long standing groups, because teasing sends an implicit message that the target is included in the group. However, Martineau suggests that when parties to humor are not all part of the same ingroup, humor will emphasize intergroup distinctions, or be perceived as an attempt by the humor producer to control others’ behavior, thus having great potential to destroy cohesiveness. Therefore, an important qualiﬁcation to the notion that humor is motivated by a desire to build cohesiveness is that the impact of humorous social communications depends on the existing relationships between producer and audience.

Although developing and maintaining cohesiveness appears to be a major motivation for using humor, other positive motivations to use humor have also been noted in the literature. One such motivation might be to cope with anxiety or stress in a difﬁcult situation. Motivations to use humor in this manner have been recognized for some time. For example, in a piece on morale and war, G. Stanely Hall noted that soldiers’ use of humor on the front in World War I played an important role in maintaining morale and reducing mental strain in the face of death. He wrote ‘‘the instinct to turn the most solemn facts in the environment into a theme of laughter is partly an attempt of the individual to release his own thoughts from a present too excruciatingly agonizing to be long borne’’ (Hall, 1918, p. 380). More recent work has followed a similar theme, and has also focused on humor’s role as a coping mechanism (Martin & Lefcourt, 1984). Although some evidence for a stress-buffering effect of humor has been obtained (e.g., Cann, Calhoun, & Nance, 2000; Nezu, Nezu, & Blissett, 1988), the weight of evidence supporting such a role for humor appears mixed, perhaps due to methodological weaknesses in studies exploring the effect (Lehman, Burke, Martin, Sultan, & Czech, 2001; Martin, 2001). Nevertheless, a universal presumption that humor helps individuals cope with life’s difﬁculties (Abel, 2002) might still be manifest in conscious or unconscious motivations to use humor for this purpose.

Cooper (2005) has also suggested that humor production might be motivated by a desire to ingratiate oneself with one’s superiors, subordi- nates, or coworkers. Speciﬁcally, she suggested that individuals intentionally use humor to create positive affect in their ingratiation target. Positive

213

214