## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

due to (a lack of) test–retest reliability and performance (in)consistency. They supported their hypothesis that the test–retest reliability of subjective (behavioral) measures of job performance would be higher than the test– retest reliability of objective (results-based) measures. They argued that the greater unreliability of objective measures was due to environmental constraints beyond the control of employees (i.e., beyond the inﬂuence of their behaviors). This perspective is consistent with the ﬁndings of Stewart and Nandkeolyar (2006) who showed that a measure of environmental constraints affected employee performance trends. Speciﬁcally, they showed that the environmental factor of sales referrals explained 60% of variation in salesperson weekly performance.

These ﬁndings reveal that all measures of job performance are subject to error. ‘‘Objective’’ measures may be unaffected by a lack of intra- or inter- rater reliability, but they suffer from more test–retest unreliability than do ‘‘subjective’’ measures (Sturman et al., 2005). The result is that, regardless of the type of measure employed, measurement error is a methodological problem for all job performance research.

The ﬁndings from Sturman et al. (2005) highlight the importance of distinguishing between job performance(behaviors) and job performance(results). By measuring results instead of behaviors, such research is considering a related but fundamentally different phenomenon than the research on job performance generally considers to be the focal construct. Furthermore, as most jobs do not possess an ‘‘objective’’ measure of performance like jobs with sales data, it is not apparent if results based on objective measures explain the nature and trend of job performance(behaviors) in other contexts. The data availability of ‘‘objective’’ data may make them at ﬁrst to appear preferable, but such measures do not directly speak to the construct of job performance(behaviors) that theory on job performance is looking to advance. While results-based measures may proxy job performance(behaviors), they capture (at least) the additional effects of environmental constraints and thus cannot contribute as well to theoretical development in this area.

I am not suggesting that research on job performance(results) has been for for demonstrating how job naught. Certainly, performance(behaviors) and job performance(results) differ, illustrating how different methodologies can be used to study job performance over time, and providing a useful starting point for considering how we expect job performance(behaviors) to change with time. Studying job performance(results) also has advantages that it enables more within-person observations, and certainly job performance(results) is an outcome of interest to organizations. Nonetheless, to improve our understanding of job performance(behaviors)

the results are useful

89

90