---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 73bc306b3e85907e2cf7eb917cb637cebf68591b
title: '13'
---
# Research Design

A critical issue for research on performance that must be addressed early in the research process is the development of a study’s methodology. Most basically, the study must employ either a cross-sectional or longitudinal design. While calls for longitudinal research are the norm, it is often difﬁcult to get extensive longitudinal data. What’s more, studies involving time do not necessarily need longitudinal data to test their hypotheses. Although it may at ﬁrst seem that any sort of hypothesis involving time must be studied with longitudinal data, one must ﬁrst consider the nature of what is being studied to best determine the study design.

The nature of the research design dictates the sort of research question that can be tested. Cross-sectional research provides no opportunity for examining within-person changes (Hulin et al., 1990), whereas longitudinal studies provide the potential to consider both within-person and across- person effects. Below I will discuss issues related to both research designs.

Cross-Sectional Designs Cross-sectional data are still useful when considering performance over time if one is interested in modeling across-person relationships. Essentially, if one is examining how the relationship between some predictor (X) and some rating of job performance (Y) changes with time, then cross-sectional data can yield useful hypothesis tests.

This design is useful for applications (explicitly or implicitly) of the changing tasks model. In such models, cross-sectional data can be used to consider if the relationship between X and Y changes by testing if time
