---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5441963087953ae598dd036b1510f85a392beec3
title: '13'
---
## The Happy/Productive Worker Thesis Revisited

social in nature (Wright, 2003, 2005). This capacity to experience the positive is proposed to be crucial to one’s capacity to thrive, mentally ﬂourish, and psychologically grow (Fredrickson, 2001, 2003). This sense of ﬂourishing appears to make psychologically well or happy people more proactive (cf. Argyle, 1987) and less prone to stress symptoms (Myers & Diener, 1995).

In the organizational sciences, the broaden-and-build model may be especially beneﬁcial in providing a better understanding of both the job satisfaction–job performance and job satisfaction–employee retention/ withdrawal relationships. According to the broaden-and-build framework, the positive evaluative sentiments associated with high levels of job-related satisfaction are further broadened and built upon when the employee is also psychologically well in general (both on and off the job). While this possibility of a moderating effect of various positive emotions, such as PWB, on the job satisfaction to job performance/employee retention relations has long been recognized in organizational research (e.g., Judge, 1993; Kornhauser & Sharp, 1932; Locke, 1976; Pennock, 1930), the actual theoretical basis for this type of interaction was always rather tentative and ambiguous (cf., Gerhart, 1987; Judge, 1993; Staw, 2004; Wright, 2005).

The broaden-and-build model provides the necessary theoretical frame- work for positing that PWB moderates both the job satisfaction–performance and job satisfaction–employee retention/withdrawal relationships. First, regarding the job satisfaction–job performance relationship, the broaden- and-build dimension of Fredrickson’s (2001, 2003) theory suggests that the adaptive and moderating nature of PWB is potentially more robust for those employees who are both psychologically well and satisﬁed with their job, than for those less psychologically well and/or satisﬁed with their job. In other words, through the impetus provided by high levels of PWB (a positive circumstance), employees who are also currently satisﬁed with their job (another positive circumstance) are proposed to be more easily able to ‘‘broaden-and-build’’ themselves over time based upon their ample supply of these positive-based feelings. As a result, and as reviewed earlier, these individuals are likely to become even more creative, resilient, socially connected, and physically and mentally healthy (Fredrickson, 2001; Wright, 2003, 2005).

Building upon prior research establishing main effect associations among job satisfaction, PWB, and job performance (Wright & Cropanzano, 2000), the broaden-and-build model suggests that satisﬁed and psychologically well employees are more likely than those less satisﬁed and psychologically well to have the necessary resources to foster and facilitate increased levels of job

291

292
