---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 54c196206b197f1c9be9e3390ac1a78046c1cd96
title: '13'
---
# THOMAS A. WRIGHT AND RUSSELL CROPANZANO

than 20% of the work population were ‘‘problem’’ employees, suffering from various forms of psychological distress. In like manner, investigating British Post Ofﬁce employees, Culpin and Smith (1927) surmised that upwards of 30% suffered from some form of manifested psychological distress. Unfortunately, interest on worker well-being issues, in both the United States and Great Britain, literally ground to a halt with the advent of the Great Depression (Uhrbrock, 1934).

Interestingly, roughly 10 years later, or about the time of the Second World War, hedonic well-being resurfaced as one aspect of employee morale (Organ & Near, 1985). As a case in point, in a review of the term morale, Child (1941, p. 393) noted three different conceptualizations of the construct. One conceptualization is of particular relevance here, as it refers ‘‘to a condition of physical and emotional well-being in the individual that makes it possible for him to work and live hopefully and effectively y.’’1 However, as noted by Organ and Near (1985), as the 1940s evolved, morale fell more and more into disfavor, with job satisfaction and job attitudes becoming virtually synonymous with each other (Wright, 2006). One distinction between PWB and job satisfaction is of particular relevance to the current discussion. Unlike job satisfaction, which is completely centered about the work context, PWB is a broader construct. Most typically, PWB is considered as a primarily affective-based ‘‘context-free’’ or global construct. Unlike various measures of job satisfaction, PWB is not tied to any particular situation (Kornhauser, 1965; Wright & Cropanzano, 2000).

Like our clinical psychology and public health counterparts, organiza- tional theorists have also long recognized the extensive costs, in both human and ﬁnancial terms, attributable to dysfunctional employee PWB (Anderson, 1929; Culpin & Smith, 1927; Fisher & Hanna, 1931; Hersey, 1932b). For instance, depression, loss of self-esteem, hypertension, alcoholism, and drug consumption, have all been shown to be related to work-related dysfunc- tional PWB (Ivancevich & Matteson, 1980). Because these variables have, in turn, been related to declines in work outcomes (George, 1992; Quick, Quick, Nelson, & Hurrell, 1997; Wright, 2005), job performance, and employee retention are related (Daniels & Harris, 2000; Wright & Bonett, 1992; Wright, Bonett, & Sweeney, 1993; Wright & Cropanzano, 2000). In the next section, we will review direct evidence for this possibility.

it is possible that PWB,

A growing body of empirical research has found signiﬁcant associations between various measures of well-being and measures of job-related performance. In an quasi-experimental study, Staw and Barsade (1993) determined that students who were high on well-being were superior
