---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d29500f42161c40351d177da58446d54ab6ca92b
title: '13'
---
## A Multilevel Framework for Work Team Diversity Research

region (3%), or business environment (3%) were mostly incorporated as control variables in research. At the proximal omnibus level, organizational demography received the most attention as a moderator variable (11% of all moderating effects examined). Other proximal omnibus variables that received attention as moderators were organizational structure (4%) and culture (3%).

Our ﬁndings indicate that, overwhelmingly, both discrete and omnibus contextual variables were considered as control variables rather than directly incorporated in study hypotheses. As noted by Johns (2006) ‘‘controlling away’’ contextual variables rather than directly and explicitly accounting for their inﬂuence on the outcomes of diversity may undermine the cumulative contributions of diversity research and offer only a disjointed perspective on the various boundary conditions shaping diversity dynamics in the workplace. In the studies we reviewed, often the non-signiﬁcant effects of diversity emerged as signiﬁcant when some aspects of the context were explicitly included as moderators. For example, Richard et al.’s (2004) study examined the effect of cultural diversity (e.g., race, gender) of management teams on ﬁrm performance in a banking industry. Main effects were initially found non-signiﬁcant, but emerged as signiﬁcant when speciﬁc strategic organizational contexts were considered. Speciﬁcally, in highly entrepreneurial organizational contexts, race diversity emerged as a positive inﬂuence on ﬁrm performance and gender diversity had an inverted U-shape relationship with ﬁrm performance. Table 2b lists some illustrative study examples incorporating the various contextual factors discussed above.

In addition, we propose that other aspects of context not directly measured in studies may also account for the mixed ﬁndings from past research. For example, in a household goods moving ﬁrm, Jehn, Northcraft and Neale (1999) found that gender and race diversity was associated with negative affective outcomes such as emotional conﬂict in the team. In the context of a public university, Mohammed and Angell (2004) found that these aspects of diversity had no signiﬁcant effect on relationship-based conﬂict at the work group level. It is possible that the varied nature of these two research settings accounted for these contradictory ﬁndings. To explore this idea further, we also coded different research settings in which past diversity research has been conducted. As shown in Table 3 below, studies have been conducted across a wide range of industries, geographic locations, and using varied types of teams. We propose that these aspects of the research context might possibly either magnify, nullify, or even reverse effects of diversity attributes on various work outcomes.

29
