# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

Rotundo & Sackett, 2002). A key issue here is that job performance is deﬁned as behavior, and hence distinguishable from the results of such behavior. While this deﬁnition is applicable to the performance of work in any role within any form of organization (Campbell, 1990), I will assume here that this behavior is within the context of an employment relationship. The employing organization is also assumed to have goals, with the job performance in some way (directly or indirectly) being able to contribute to those goals.

Past research focused on understanding the deﬁnition and conceptualiza- tion of job performance has usually employed this deﬁnition. Other research, time, has also and particularly research involving performance over considered job performance in different ways. Previous longitudinal job performance research often uses results-based measures, such as sales or output rates (Sturman, Cheramie, & Cashen, 2005). It is also important to note that job performance has been considered as the organizational value associated with employees’ behaviors (Brogden & Taylor, 1950; Schmidt & Kaplan, 1971). Papers taking this perspective are based on the idea that employees’ behaviors and the results of their behaviors have a direct or indirect association with organizational value, and this value can be approximated and studied as a substantive outcome. This performance value, often referred to as utility, relates to the particular monetary value associated job performance behaviors (Boudreau, 1991). From this perspective, research has estimated the value of various human resource programs by considering the stream of costs and beneﬁts associated with employee performance, often in a longitudinal context (e.g., Boudreau & Berger, 1985; Sturman, 2000; Sturman, Trevor, Boudreau, & Gerhart, 2003).

Any review of the research on job performance and time must therefore be careful to distinguish between, but still consider, the various forms of performance that have been examined. It is important (1) to note that these conceptualizations of job performance are very different and (2) to make a distinction between the theoretical and methodological issues relevant to understanding each. For this paper, I speciﬁcally distinguish between job job performance(results), and job performance(utility). performance(behaviors), for simplicity and space, references to ‘‘job Unless otherwise noted, performance’’ will refer to job performance(behaviors).