---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c3588a5da6c647bbfcc9381ae685f299787d840c
title: '13'
---
# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

Kim (1994) who found that members of collectivistic cultures attribute higher importance to not hurting the hearer’s feelings than members of individualistic cultures. Members of individualistic cultures, in contrast, put more emphasis on conversational clarity. All other things being equal, it follows that individuals in collectivist societies might engage in humor more frequently as a means of saving face.

Humor in Tight Cultures Rules for the acceptable use of humor in tight societies or in tight organizational cultures are likely to be complex. Tightness implies that strong and clear norms for appropriate behavior are in place, perhaps manifest as rules or bureaucratic procedures. One common and effective way that individuals use humor and incongruity is by contrasting an established worldview (e.g., the acceptable way to do things) in a novel way with a different worldview (Davis, 1993). This style of humor can open peoples’ eyes to alternative perspectives, thereby representing a subversive threat or challenge to the established order. Because this type of subversive humor attacks core assumptions, beliefs, and values, it is unlikely to be tolerated in tight environments. In work contexts embedded in tight cultures, where formal and unspoken rules for appropriate behavior are likely to be strong, humor might be considered inconsistent with a perception that work is ‘‘serious,’’ (Morreall, 1991), and might be perceived as unproductive or distracting. This also suggests that tight environments might be similarly intolerant of distracting humor that employs weakly held belief systems, such ‘‘silly’’ humor (e.g., slapstick, vulgar humor).

On the other hand, Haig (1988) notes that humor often has a powerful ‘conservative’ inﬂuence. He notes that humor is often used to deﬁne ingroups and outgroups, reinforce the power structure, and communicate the accepted group norms and values. He cites examples of a number of societies in which humor is used in the form of ridicule and humiliation to punish and correct the behavior of those who violate rules. Thus, if humor is used in tight cultures, we expect it to be directed toward the maintenance of the social order and organizational discipline.

Humor, Cohesiveness, and Individualism–Collectivism As discussed earlier, the role of humor in the development of interpersonal cohesiveness appears to be one of its major social functions. In examining this issue, Martineau (1972) suggested that understanding relationships between parties to humor (i.e., producer, audience, and target or ‘butt’) is essential for understanding the interpretations of humor, and ultimately, its effects within
