# CONCLUSION

The study of dynamic performance has a long history, but understanding the nature of job performance over time has had only limited development. I argue, based on what I see as clear and convincing evidence, that the answer to the question ‘‘is performance dynamic?’’ has been resolved. The answer is a resounding ‘‘yes’’; job performance does change over time. The ﬁeld has thus moved beyond this simple question to trying to understand the nature of job performance over time and its implications for human resource practice. Theoretical models are available that provide general information as to why performance changes or what performance trends may look like, but there has been no clear direction as to what variables to study, what questions to ask, what methods to employ, how to employ those methods, and how to interpret their results. Although greatly limited by the general difﬁculty of getting sufﬁciently large longitudinal datasets, the limitations of various methodological designs can be well understood and less-than-ideal datasets (including cross-sectional ones) can utilize complementary methods to make signiﬁcant progress along this research path.

An employment relationship, by its very nature, connotes events, reactions, behaviors, and perceptions that occur over time. From an organization’s point of view, a primary (if not the primary) outcome of this relationship is the employee’s job performance. As such, what happens to performance over time is central to the employment relationship, but it is frequently ignored and far from well-understood. If simply the study of the criterion (i.e., job performance) has been cited as one of the most neglected elements in the applied prediction problem (Dunnette, 1963; Campbell, 1990; Motowidlo et al., 1997), performance within the context of time has received even less attention and is even less-well understood. And yet, between the available empirical examples, models and theories of learning, and methodological advances, there is genuine opportunity for our understanding of job performance over time to make signiﬁcant strides in

101

102