---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0b9e082a4aec2ce36d1afcaba8e8209f91972cec
title: '13'
---
# THOMAS A. WRIGHT AND RUSSELL CROPANZANO

performance. In particular, research has clearly demonstrated that positive feelings can help enhance one’s ability to be a better problem solver, decision maker, and evaluator/processor of events (e.g., Erez & Isen, 2002; Isen, 2003). In turn, research has consistently shown that these skills and abilities are related to job performance (Wright, 2005). As an added bonus, these effects would appear to persist over time due, in part, to the differential manner in which happy and unhappy people recall events. In fact, as a general consequence, a continued focus on positive feelings expands (broadens) and builds on these positive urges, creating a potentially ‘‘upwards spiral’’ effect, which is proposed to further enhance individual character development (Fredrickson & Joiner, 2002; Hobfoll, 1998; Wright, 2005). In sum, this capacity to constructively experience positive feelings has been proposed to be a fundamental human strength (Fredrickson, 2001; Wright, 2005).

incorporating the broaden-and-build framework, employee retention can be considered as a positive circumstance, in the sense that the decision to remain on a job suggests a positive response by the employee toward the employer. In other words, the employee considers their current job situation as a good option, possibly even their best option and, as a result, they make the decision to remain on the job. Assuredly, this is not to contradict the well-known fact that turnover can be functional for an organization (Abelson, 1987; Campion, 1991), as on those occasions when low performers depart (McEvoy & Cascio, 1987; Trevor, Gerhart, & Boudreau, 1997). It does, however, assume that voluntarily choosing to remain on a job signiﬁes some measure of satisfaction, while choosing to leave signiﬁes a measure of dissatisfaction.

In a like fashion,

Recent research provides empirical support that PWB does moderate the relationships between both job satisfaction and job performance and between job satisfaction and employee retention. Regarding the job satisfaction–job performance relationship, and highly consistent with Fredrickson’s model, Wright and Cropanzano (2004) reported that job performance was highest when employees reported high scores on both PWB and job satisfaction. Interestingly, job satisfaction did predict performance, but only if the employee also had a high level of PWB. In other words, job satisfaction was not a good predictor of job performance among employees with low levels of PWB. In fact, this moderating effect of PWB may account for some of the inconsistent ﬁndings of previous research examining the job satisfaction–job performance relationship.

Once again incorporating Fredrickson’s (1998, 2001) broaden-and-build framework, Wright and Bonett (2005, 2007) found that PWB and job satisfaction interacted to predict employee retention. As anticipated, the
