---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f720a295da0484a5326f242ad1f157329d3e467b
title: '13'
---
# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

abusive, particularly given norms that would suppress retribution in kind. This might be particularly true given that leadership in high power distance societies often carries with it a ﬂavor of paternalism, in which the leader is given power, but also has responsibility for looking after the welfare of his/ her subordinates (Triandis, 1995).

In summary, our analysis of humor in the context of high and low power distance organizations and societies suggests that power distance might moderate motivations of both low and high status individuals to use both positive and negative forms of humor. Generally, we expect relatively little upward or downward focused humor when both the organizational and societal cultures are high in power distance (e.g., Chinese owned ﬁrms operating in China), and perhaps slightly more humor in the form of light- hearted (e.g., teasing, or bantering) humor that can be tolerated by societal norms when the societal culture is high in power distance, but the organizational culture is low in power distance (e.g., subsidiaries of companies headquartered in low power distance countries that are located in a high power distance country such as India). In contrast, we predict considerable use of upward and downward focused humor when both the organizational and societal cultures are low in power distance (e.g., ﬁrms that are known to downplay hierarchy such as Ben & Jerry’s or Southwest located in relatively low power distance countries). The most Airlines, aggressive forms of humor are likely in high power distance organizations embedded within low power distance societies subsidiaries of companies headquartered in high power distance societies, but located in low power distance societies). This is because the organizational culture supports hierarchical stratiﬁcation, while simultaneously, the ambient societal culture supports efforts to challenge authority and control. This can lead to a veritable humor ‘‘arms race’’ in which the tone of humor can become more and more negative as employees who are both low and high in the formal hierarchy attempt to exercise autonomy or control, respectively.

(e.g.,
