# Negative Motivations and Humor Use

‘‘The satirist shoots to kill while the humorist brings his prey back alive and eventually releases him again for another chance.’’ (Peter De Vries)

Positive motivations for humor use notwithstanding, a growing body of recent research suggests that individuals might be motivated to use humor for negative purposes. One of the more discussed negative motivations involves aggression. Aggressive humor is a type of negative humor used to control others by putting them down or through ridicule (Martin et al., 2003; Meyer, 1990). Aggressive humor can serve as an important conservative force for maintaining the integrity of group norms. For example, humor can be used to identify what the group accepts to be ‘‘normal’’ and ‘‘abnormal’’ behavior (Fine & De Soucey, 2005), often by demonstrating the inferiority of outgroups or by derogating group members who violate norms (Meyer, 1997). In his review, Duncan (1982) noted that research suggests that high status people initiate most humor in organizations; a phenomenon termed the ‘‘high status humor monopoly’’ (p. 141). Indeed, a considerable body of early humor research supports Radcliffe-Brown’s (1952) hypothesis that high status individuals in all societies have rights to joke and tease others without reprisal. For example, Bradney (1957) observed that when joking behavior occurs between people from different hierarchical levels, it was almost always directed from the top down. Importantly, both Coser (1960) and Lundberg (1969) found that humor in organizational contexts was directed in a status- maintaining downward direction, often in an aggressive form. More recent