## Third Party Interventions across Cultures

to comply with or implement an involuntary decision against their individual interests if it is not legally or otherwise enforceable. Alternatively, in hierarchical, collectivist cultures, disputants may feel pressured to comply with the decision of a high status third party for the collective interest regardless of other explicit forms of enforcement.

Binding Arbitration The above description of arbitration is most applicable to a version of the procedure known as conventional, or binding arbitration. In binding arbitration, the third party is free to craft any outcome that he or she perceives to be fair. While the assumption is that the ﬁnal positions advocated by each party in the arbitration hearing phase may determine the range within which the arbitrator will determine the outcome, this is only an assumption. In fact, binding arbitration allows the third party considerable ﬂexibility to make any decision, inside or outside the range suggested by the parties’ proposals.

Binding arbitration is widely used across many different cultural contexts; for example, recent practitioner articles on arbitration discuss the procedure in Brazil (Pucci, 2005), China (Chan, 1997), Germany and Switzerland (Montaqu-Smith, 1998), New Zealand (McAndrew, 2003), and Mexico (Buckley, 2005) in addition to the United States. However, the implementa- tion of binding arbitration across cultures may differ depending on the legal philosophies and cultural environments in which it exists. For example, in European countries, where civil law is the basis for proceedings, the arbitrator’s role is to decide based on legislation, policies, and general principles, while in common law countries like the United States, the arbitrator’s role is to settle based on precedent of previous cases and the merits of each party’s case (Montaqu-Smith, 1998). In addition, German arbitrators have a speciﬁc expectation that they have the responsibility to ﬁnd conciliation if at all possible between the parties (Montaqu-Smith, 1998).

Final Offer Arbitration Several other forms of arbitration have grown out of conventional or binding arbitration. The ﬁrst of these is ﬁnal offer arbitration (FOA), sometimes called ‘‘baseball arbitration’’ in the United States because it is used for salary adjustments in that sport. FOA has also been used to set prices in the water sector in Chile to reduce the chance of the parties (the regulator and the regulated ﬁrm) submitting widely divergent offers (Montero, 2005), and for police compensation disputes in New Zealand to encourage voluntary settlements where the costs of strikes are high (McAndrew, 2003). In FOA,

315

316

DONALD E. CONLON ET AL.

disputing parties negotiate and then submit their ‘‘last, best offers’’ (ﬁnal offer) to the arbitrator (Lewicki, Weiss, & Lewin, 1992; Feuille, 1975). The arbitrator then must choose which of the two offers will be imposed on the parties.

FOA was developed with the goal of encouraging parties to make more ‘‘reasonable’’ ﬁnal offers than they sometimes do in binding arbitration. In binding arbitration parties may have an incentive to cease making concessions in the expectation that the arbitrator’s outcome will ‘‘split’’ the difference between the two last offers, thereby resulting in a more advantageous outcome to the disputant. While the evidence is mixed, some research suggests that ﬁnal offer arbitration does encourage parties to make more reasonable ﬁnal offers, reducing what the literature refers to as the ‘‘chilling effect’’ (Hebdon, 1996; Feuille, 1975; Stokes, 1999). This reduction in the ‘‘chilling effect’’ is expected because each side has heightened concern over the potential costs incurred if the arbitrator rules for the other side – the risk of ‘‘losing it all’’ looms large.

A second objective of FOA is to encourage parties to ﬁnd their own voluntary settlements rather than becoming dependent on the arbitrator to resolve disputes. Rather than risk the uncertainty inherent in FOA, disputants would be highly motivated to reach their own agreements, thereby reducing what the literature refers to as the ‘‘narcotic effect’’ (Olson, 1988). This is the rationale behind using FOA to settle labor disputes in some public sector organizations in approximately 10 states in the US (Crawford, 1981; Serrin, 1983). However, from the perspective of the third party, FOA provides little discretion to the third party, as their ability to craft what they feel is truly a fair settlement is severely constrained. All they can do is choose from one of the two outcomes.

FOA is particularly popular in the US, where a common-law system results in proceedings that tend to have a more aggressive approach (Montaqu-Smith, 1998). Perhaps because of the associated individualistic values as well as a focus on individual positions coupled with low uncertainty avoidance, we ﬁnd that US disputants are likely to want to ‘‘bet’’ everything that they will ‘‘win’’ in the process. Therefore, they would rather put their own offers on the table than have the arbitrator ‘‘split the solution down the middle’’ as often happens in binding arbitration (Brams & Merrill, 1986). On the other hand, we do not ﬁnd this procedure to be popular in European countries with a civil-law tradition, or in Asian countries where there is more concern for relationship or principles than ‘‘who gets what’’ (Montaqu-Smith, 1998).