# INTRODUCTION

The extensive history to the study of employee job performance is ﬁlled with research that is predominantly static in nature. That is, most of this research examines the correlates of various sorts of job performance ratings, with the often implicit assumption that the results would generalize to the same population of subjects at any other point in time. Yet there is abundant, and as I will argue in this paper overwhelming, evidence that indeed individuals’ job performance does change with time. Accepting that an individual’s job performance changes, also known as dynamic performance or dynamic criteria, requires research on job performance to consider the effects associated with the passage of time (Hulin, Henry, & Noon, 1990). Sometimes, time- related issues seem to receive some acknowledgment, such as demonstrated by the extensive use of variables such as age, organizational tenure, or job experience as controls (Sturman, 2003), yet job performance research still primarily focuses on the cross-sectional prediction of what is commonly called the criterion (Austin & Villanova, 1992; Campbell, 1990; Dunnette, 1963).

Even though the examination of job performance at a given point in time is most common, job performance, perhaps more than any other individual- level variable in organizational research, has been examined in conjunction with time. Research has considered job performance longitudinally since at least the 1940s (e.g., Kunst, 1941; Rothe, 1946, 1947), and effects associated with time have long been recognized as important when measuring job performance (e.g., Ghiselli, 1956; Ghiselli & Haire, 1960). Research on dynamic performance has most often been framed as a critical issue for selection (e.g., Ghiselli & Haire, 1960; Henry & Hulin, 1989; Prien, 1966; Steele-Johnson, Osburn, & Pieper, 2000). If performance changes over time, then the validity of selection devices for predicting job performance obtained from an original validation study may not be stable over time. But the impact of a dynamic criteria reaches far beyond just selection. Human resource researchers investigate how employees are selected, placed, developed, trained, appraised, and compensated within their job performance and organizations, processes all all inherently involving the passage of time. For our ﬁeld to understand employee job performance we require an understanding of what happens to this performance with the passage of time. Nevertheless, despite the time that has passed since issues related to dynamic performance were ﬁrst raised, there has been less progress in this area than its long history might suggest. The study of dynamic performance is also complicated by a wide array of methodological issues. First, although time is inherently a longitudinal issue,

intended to affect