# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

Cortina (2001) present tests of Ackerman’s model but examine job performance ratings over time frames that are consistent with research on jobs but not the earlier work on task performance. Speciﬁcally, Keil and Cortina (2001) considered both short-term (o1 day) and long-term outcome measures; Farrell and McDaniel (2001) exclusively employed supervisor ratings of job performance.

Although these studies purport to investigate Ackerman’s model, they actually provide useful evidence for comparing and contrasting the predictions of Murphy with Ackerman. The results from Keil and Cortina (2001) actually provide support of Murphy’s model as it is differentiated from Ackerman’s. For example, Keil and Cortina (having examined cognitive ability, perpetual speed ability, and psychomotor ability) concluded that ‘‘the most pervasive ﬁnding of the present study was that validities deteriorate over time’’ (p. 687). While Ackerman had predicted different functional forms for the relationships between these abilities and task performance over time, Keil and Cortina found that the relationship between these abilities and performance began to deteriorate in the early stages of task performance for both consistent and inconsistent tasks. Note that while this is inconsistent with Ackerman’s predictions, they are perfectly consistent with Murphy’s prediction that abilities (in general, and including all three studied here) would initially predict performance and then decrease in validity in the transition stage.

Keil and Cortina also support what they labeled a ‘‘Eureka effect’’ which is increases in experience tend to produce insights that lead to sudden jumps in performance. Recall that Ackerman predicted continuous development through stages, whereas Murphy called for ‘‘distinct’’ stages. This ﬁnding is also consistent with Murphy but contrary to Ackerman’s task-based model. On the other hand, Farrell and McDaniel’s study is in some ways more consistent with the predictions of Ackerman’s model, and in other ways contradictory to both models. The effects of general mental ability, perceptual speed ability, and psychomotor speed were of different functional forms. There were also notable differences in these relationships for consistent and inconsistent jobs. However, contrary to both models, the effect of abilities on performance for consistent jobs appeared to increase with experience. It should be noted, though, that Farrell and McDaniel’s study suffer from the limitations of cross-sectional research of longitudinal (negative) phenomena. That correlation between their temporal variable (experience) and all of their ability measures. This suggests that the cohorts in their sample were not equivalent. This could mean that hiring standards have increased over time

is,

the authors did show a signiﬁcant