# (g) Body image.

Research shows that there are cross-cultural differences in reactions to body size (Hebl & Heatherford, 1998; Matacin, 1995). For example, in the U.S., obese people are often stigmatized because they are viewed as having a weak character, and as incapable of exercising self-control (Bell et al., 2003). However, being overweight is less stigmatizing in Italy than it is in the U.S. One reason for this is the VSIs of women differ across these nations: Italian women are more likely to view larger body sizes as ideal than are American women (Matacin, 1995). Interestingly, however, ratings of ideal body size did not differ between Italian men and American men. (h) Sexual orientation.

Research reveals cross-cultural differences in sexual orientation-based lesbian, bisexual, or stigmas. In the U.S., people who are gay, transgendered are often highly stigmatized (Ragins & Cornwell, 2001; Ragins et al., 2003). In addition, Hispanic-Americans are more likely to stigmatize gay men than are Anglo-Americans (Kurtz, 1999). In contrast, the Dine’ (Navajo) are more tolerant of homosexuality than are Anglo-Americans (Witherspoon, 1977). One reason for this is that Dine’ culture views all people as having both male and female identities, and is more permissive of letting individuals express these identities.

Interestingly, research by Schneider (2002) showed that people in the U.S. are more likely to stigmatize people with sexually erotic identities than are individuals in Germany. However, Germans are more likely to stigmatize those with non-sexually erotic identities than are people in the U.S.