---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e1774e626be181facad769d12da434d9a717d324
title: '13'
---
## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

between two variable, showed its power to be quite low (Hertzog, Lindenberger, Ghisletta, & von Oertzen, 2006). Most salient for research on job performance over time, a simulation study revealed that power did not exceed .80 for a sample size of 200 until reliability was nearly perfect (e.g., W0.96) for designs of 6 or fewer occasions (Hertzog et al., 2006). While studies of performance results, like monthly sales over a multiyear period may appear well suited for LGCMs, realities of data collection may make them less appropriate when using annual ratings of job performance behaviors.

Power for HLM is somewhat harder to determine because of the likely potential of unbalanced data. If the data is balanced, then the power would be the same as in the equivalent LGCM, suggesting that HLM too suffers from the power concerns discussed by Hertzog et al. (2006). Other research also suggests that HLM has power concerns. Zhang and Willson (2006) showed that HLM needs large sample sizes to have adequate power – upwards of 35 observations at Level-1, a size unlikely to be reached in longitudinal studies of job performance. They also showed that HLM models are more sensitive to changes in the Level-2 coefﬁcients than SEM approaches.

These empirical investigations into the power of HLM and LGCM give cause for some concern; however, research measuring performance trends has generally been quite successful in ﬁnding signiﬁcant effects. In models of job performance trends using just an intercept and slope, signiﬁcance has been found quite frequently (e.g., Deadrick et al., 1997; Stewart & Nandkeolyar, 2006; Sturman & Trevor, 2001). Hofmann et al. (1993) found signiﬁcant effects for their hypothesized quadratic and cubic growth terms (although not linear). Therefore, power does not seem to be a major hindrance for modeling growth trends, although power for detecting moderators of these trends still remains in question. Applicants of LGCM are less common in management research (Williams et al., 2003), and particularly for modeling individual job performance over time. In one example, Ployhart and Hakel (1998) using LGCM found the linear, quadratic, and cubic effects that they hypothesized. Thus, while power is always a concern in empirical research and has the potential to be particularly limiting for studies of dynamic performance, it does not appear to have been a signiﬁcant issue in applications of job performance trend modeling.

Choosing between HLM and LGCM As speciﬁc applications of the GLMM, HLM and LGCM each have advantages and disadvantages. The choice of HLM and LGCM approaches depends on the nature of the data structure and the desired treatment of error terms (Raudenbush, 2001). In short, HLM allows for greater ﬂexibility

87

88
