# Consequences of Reputation

As noted in the model in Fig. 1, reputation has both direct, or immediate, consequences, and indirect outcomes that work through the direct con- sequences. Because reputation is deﬁned as a collective and shared perception by others, it is appropriate to consider consequences of reputation that operate on others, including performance ratings and compensation given by supervisors, and power and discretionary behavior granted to the focal person by both coworkers and superiors. However, it is also important to acknowl- edge that the reputation individuals develop also exert effects on themselves in the form of attitudes. Both are considered in this phase of the model.

Direct Outcomes Discretionary Behavior. As individuals establish their reputations, they are allotted more discretion regarding their actions (Diamond, 1989). Studies dealing with agency theory show organizations are willing to pay more for individuals with established reputations (Wernerfelt, 1988) because their reputations can act as socially mediated controls for self-interested behavior (Arrow, 1985). This ability to predict the actions of another suggests that a strong reputation can lead to trust in the individual regarding certain actions and behaviors (e.g., Tyler & Kramer, 1996). This reﬂects Whitmeyer’s (2000) views of reputation, who suggested reputation is important ‘‘because it informs the formation of the subjective probability relevant to placing trust’’ (p. 190).

Both Greenberg (1990) and Knoke (1983) reﬂected similar views regarding reputation. Greenberg supported this argument using Hollander’s (1958) notion of ‘‘idiosyncrasy credits’’ as a vehicle, by proposing that marginal latitude or ‘‘beneﬁt of the doubt’’ was granted to those with particularly deﬁned reputations. Knoke (1983) showed that greater freedom was given to organizations that have a high ‘‘inﬂuence reputation,’’ deﬁned as ‘‘an actor’s reputation for inﬂuence’’ (p. 1068). These notions suggest that reputation has informational, predictive, and trust-enhancing value, and that those with strong, powerful reputations will be treated differently then those with lesser reputations.

Power. Pfeffer (1992) suggested that as individuals gain reputation, they gain power, and that power gives individuals the ability to get things done easier, resulting in a stronger reputation, which brings more power. This idea that reputation brings power relates to Hollander’s (1958) idiosyncrasy credit and referent power (as discussed above). Hollander suggested that

187

188

ROBERT ZINKO ET AL.

individuals are able to store idiosyncrasy credits by being of value to a group. These credits then can be ‘cashed in’ to ‘buy’ increased discretion (within reason). Gioia and Sims (1983) showed reputation contributed signiﬁcantly to subordinate perceptions of legitimate, referent, and expert power in the study of managers. Matthews (1988) supported the idea that reputation is purely a social construct, suggesting that reputation is power that is based less on reality than appearance.

French and Raven (1959) theorized ﬁve bases of power: reward power, coercive power, legitimate power, referent power, and expert power. Legitimate power is granted to individuals giving them power over other individuals. Because this basis is tied to a formal position (i.e., by the organization), reputation (i.e., being a social, not formal construct) may not have a direct effect upon it, but would likely have an indirect effect through autonomy and career success. Furthermore, because legitimate power is granted by organizations to individuals based on their positions, others holding that position may expect similar power. This again suggests that legitimate power is not based on reputation, since it is so easily passed on to whoever holds that particular position.

Both reward and coercive power depend on the ability of a subject to reward or punish an individual or group. It has been suggested that an increase in reputation results in an increase in power (Pfeffer, 1992). More powerful individuals have been shown to attract a larger allotment of resources than normally designated to their position (Keltner, Gruenfeld, & Anderson, 2003). This control of excess resources would allow a highly reputed individual the ability to grant rewards or punishments to others as consistent with their reputation (Stevens, 2002). Furthermore, as informa- tion and resources contribute to social power bases, personal reputations of individuals should increase as they can more readily access such information and resources (Kilduff & Krackhardt, 1994; Tsui, 1984), which should enhance their perceived inﬂuence and power (Brass, 1984; Brass & Burkhardt, 1993).

Referent power is the ‘‘ability to administer to another feelings of (Hinkin & Schriesheim, 1989). When obligation or individuals have a strong, positive reputation, others around them will wish to be identiﬁed with such individuals. Current research regarding the phenomena of ‘‘basking in reﬂected glory’’ suggests such actions (see Snyder, Lassegard, & Ford, 1986 for a review of the ‘‘basking in reﬂected glory’’ literature). Expert power is based on the perception of an individual or group regarding a subject. Individuals compare their knowl- edge or proﬁciency regarding a topic against what they believe the subject’s