---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e74f2aa3a6810adcc6584b001c179a3599ec4483
title: '13'
---
# reactions

to positive stimuli. Conversely,

These ﬁndings may prove to be beneﬁcial to not only the individual employee, but also the employing organization as well. To take but one example, consider the effect of depression. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, about 19 million American adults, approximately 1 in 10, will suffer some form of depression (Coltrera, 2001). Furthermore, 6 million American children, more than one tenth the school-age population, will be prescribed antidepressants and stimulants (Wright & Wright, 2002). As these children grow up and get jobs, the effects of this increasingly prescription-dependent youth population will undoubtedly be felt in the marketplace. In 1990 dollars, Greenberg, Stiglins, Finkelstein, and Berndt (1993) estimated that depression cost the United States economy about $33.7 billion annually. Likewise, Druss, Rosenheck, and Sledge (2000) found that depression cost organizations more than hypertension, and about as much as heart disease, diabetes, and back problems. Similar results regarding cost were reported by Conti and Burton (1994).

The research examined to date provides a solid framework for the belief that there is both a psychological and physiological basis for individual happiness. Using research on the happy/productive worker thesis as our guide, we now examine the two prevailing approaches to operationalizing happiness in organizational research: job satisfaction and PWB. To that end, a brief historical overview of research purporting job satisfaction–job performance and job satisfaction–employee retention relationships is introduced next.
