---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 36ddcc98538585afdaf68c7dc8f2a36184231392
title: '13'
---
# Key Trends in Research

We found that race/ethnic diversity and gender diversity were the most often considered diversity attributes in extant research (16 and 15%, respectively). Other diversity attributes considered were functional and educational background (16%), age (10%), and tenure (9%). Together, these easily detected or surface-level attributes accounted for about 70% of the diversity effects reported in our analysis. A number of studies have also focused on deep-level diversity attributes such as cognitive and cultural aspects of team composition. In the current review, 10% of relationships reported the effects of cognitive diversity on various work outcomes and 7% addressed the inﬂuence of different cultural values. Compared with Jackson et al.’s (2003) review, we found that there had been an 11.5% increase in research atte- ntion given to these deeper level diversity attributes (from 5.5% to 17%). We also found that a small percentage of studies relied on faultline measures of team diversity (4%).

Among three categories of work outcome variables, researchers showed a preference for studying performance outcomes (44%) as opposed to affective/attitudinal (30%) or process (27%) outcomes. Typical measures for performance outcomes included both ﬁnancial (i.e., ROA, ROE, sales growth, labor productivity) and non-ﬁnancial (i.e., strategic change, technology/process innovation) results at the ﬁrm level. At the work group level, outcome measures included team’s objective performance (i.e., goal achievement, productivity, effectiveness/efﬁciency, project grades), subjective performance ratings by team members or supervisors, and team innovation. Attitudinal outcomes considered in the studies were – conﬂict (task, job satisfaction, and organizational commitment. Process outcomes examined in the studies we reviewed included – group integration/cohesion, information sharing, and learning behavior. Also, several studies incorporated these process or affect/attitude outcome variables as mediators in addressing the effects of diversity on performance outcomes. Of the 88 studies we reviewed, 20 studies examined process and attitudinal measures as mediators.

relational, or emotional),

23

24
