# INTRODUCTION

I am the Negro bearing slavery’s scars.

I am the Red man driven from the land.

I am the immigrant clutching the hope I seek,

and ﬁnding only the same old stupid plan

of dog eat dog, and mighty crush the weak. (Hughes, 1994)

This poem by Langston Hughes reﬂects some of the hardships faced by stigmatized individuals in the U.S. and suggests that their hopes and dreams are often thwarted by the highly competitive nature of the U.S. culture. Although the poem focuses on members of selected ethnic groups in the U.S., individuals in this and other countries are also often discredited by virtue of their status on such dimensions as disability (Colella, 2001; Colella & Stone, 2005; Stone & Colella, 1996), sexual orientation (Ragins & Cornwell, 2001; Ragins, Cornwell, & Miller, 2003), unattractiveness (Dipboye, Fromkin, & Wiback, 1975; Heilman & Stopeck, 1985; Hosoda, Stone-Romero, & Coats, 2003; Katz, 2003), age (Cleveland & Landy, 1981, 1983; Shore & Goldberg, 2005), mental health (Goffman, 1963; Stone- Romero, 2005), personality (Stone-Romero, 2005), biological sex (e.g., Broverman, Vogel, Broverman, Clarkson, & Rosenkrantz, 1994; Cleveland, Vescio, & Barnes-Farrell, 2005; Schein & Mueller, 1992), and religious afﬁliation (Korman, 1989). Moreover, stigmatization is not unique to people in the U.S. The same phenomenon spans the social systems of many nations. In this regard a religious scholar argued that such systems have divided people into groups for over 2,000 years, ‘‘the clean and unclean, the pure and deﬁled, sacred and profane’’ (Smith, 1994, p. 74) and these distinctions have hampered the development of compassionate and peaceful societies.

Research shows that not only are stigmatized (Goffman, 1963) or marked (Jones et al., 1984) individuals devalued in the U.S., but they are often excluded from organizations, preventing them from both (a) achieving their full potential and (b) experiencing a number of desirable social and economic outcomes (Cox, 1993; Dipboye & Colella, 2005; Stone & Colella, 1996; Stone, Stone, & Dipboye, 1992; Stone-Romero & Stone, 2005). In addition, unfair discrimination against stigmatized individuals precludes organizations from realizing the many contributions that they can make to the achievement of organizational goals.