---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 619f0edc2972aceb8c16cee470d4422b386ea7f5
title: '13'
---
# Yes

T h i r d

P a r t y

I n t e r v e n t i o n s

a c r o s s C u l t u r e s

3 2 3

324

DONALD E. CONLON ET AL.

perceptions of procedural justice: when parties are allowed voice, when the disputants are treated with dignity and respect, and when processes are considered ‘‘fair’’, there is greater compliance with decisions (Folger, 1977; Lind, Lissak, & Conlon, 1983).

While mediators have the choice to exert little to no control over the process (an inaction strategy, Carnevale, 1986), they more often are described as having high process control and no decision control (ability to impose a settlement upon the disputants (Thibaut & Walker, 1975). Arbitrators (in all types of arbitration), on the other hand, exercise more limited process intervention but have considerable control over the outcome (Sheppard, 1984). In fact, arbitrators are typically reticent to exert much control over the process, instead allowing the participants to present their cases as they see ﬁt. Among the hybrid procedures (med-arb and arb-med), the level of process control changes over time depending on the stage of the procedure being implemented. Thus, hybrid procedures include stages with different levels of process intervention from the third party.

Existing US research suggests that with other factors being equal, parties generally prefer to control the process themselves, especially when they cannot control litigants usually prefer adversarial adjudication procedures (where the disputants’ exercise greater process control) over inquisitorial adjudication procedures (where the third party exercises greater process control) as more just (Walker, LaTour, Lind, & Thibaut, 1974; LaTour, 1978). However, disputant preferences for high levels of process control may not generalize across all cultural contexts. While there is some evidence at an abstract level that the concern for process control is pan-cultural (Lind, Erickson, Friedland, & Dickenberger, 1978; Leung, Au, Fernandez-Dols, & Iwawaki, 1992; Leung, 1987), cultural values or expectancies around behavioral strategies might inhibit the observed preferences for process control in real dispute environments (Lind & Early, 1992; Bond, Leung, & Schwartz, 1992; Morris & Leung, 2000).

the outcome. For example,

in individualist and egalitarian cultures, there may be expectations around the rights of every individual to ‘‘have their say’’ and assert their own set of individual interests, with numerous US-based studies ﬁnding a preference for procedures that allow disputants voice (e.g., Lind & Tyler, 1988). In collectivist cultures, however, a focus on individual interests in the ﬁrst place may be counter to the preferences of each individual who sees him or herself as a member of a collective (Leung & Tong, 2004). Such disputants might not feel it is appropriate or preferable to put their own individual interests forward if there is the chance of conﬂicting with the collective interest. Even when representing a group within the collective,

For example,
