# Methodological Issues

While characteristics of the data and the nature of the desired analyses must be considered to choose a research design and a technique for analyzing the subsequent job performance data, there are also methodological issues that are inevitable when studying dynamic performance. All of these issues will inﬂuence research on job performance over time in at least some way regardless of analytical choice. I will brieﬂy review the types of issues and their likely consequences for research on this topic.

The Measurement of Job Performance Research examining performance over time has generally examined either job performance ratings from supervisors or measures of performance results (Sturman et al., 2005). While research on job performance has acknowledged that the two measures are different (e.g., Bommer, Johnson, Rich, Podsakoff, & Mackenzie, 1995), the dynamic performance literature has rarely made this distinction.

Measurement error is a concern for both behavior- and results-based performance measures. While there is extensive history to understanding reliability of a given measure at a point in time (Nunnally & Bernstein, 1994) and the reliability (intra-rater and inter-rater) of job performance speciﬁcally (Bommer et al., 1995; Viswesvaran, Ones, & Schmidt, 1996), less attention has been paid to estimating the test–retest reliability of job performance ratings. Sturman et al. (2005) examined the consistency of job performance ratings (objective and subjective) by separating the variance