## NEXT STEPS: CONSIDERATIONS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH

From a research standpoint, several areas remain for further enhancing our understanding of the multi-faceted and complex nature of diversity context. Our review suggests that while there has been a greater focus on the discrete level context, this is only one layer of the overall contextual framework that can impinge upon the outcomes of diversity. Our discussion above reveals that other layers of context can also act as powerful inﬂuences on the outcomes of work group diversity. In our opening remarks, we proposed that while current theory and empirical research in the area of diversity has focused on ‘‘why’’, diversity may manifest in process or performance outcomes contextual considerations allow us to take into account ‘‘when’’, ‘‘where’’, ‘‘what’’, and ‘‘how’’ diversity matters (cf. Johns, 2006). In this section we return to this heuristic to pose contextual considerations in future diversity research:

- 1. ‘‘What’’ aspects of diversity context should researchers focus on? Given the long list of contextual factors listed in this paper deciding which aspects of context to focus on appears daunting. We propose that the decision to focus on certain aspects of context be driven by the speciﬁc conceptua- lization of diversity in a study. Recently, Harrison and Klein (2007) offered a typology that considers three conceptualizations of diversity – disparity, variety, and separation. Diversity as disparity refers to inequal- ity among work group members in terms of status and access to resources. Diversity as separation refers to actual differences among team members with regard to a speciﬁc continuous attribute (as embodied in research on similarity-attraction or social categorization within work groups). Diversity as variety refers to within-team differences in terms of perspectives and expertise and is reﬂected in research that views the team as an information-processing unit (Harrison & Klein, 2007). Based on the discussion above with regard to omnibus and discrete contexts, we propose that the nature of diversity may inform the choice of contextual variables. For example, diversity conceptualized in terms of disparity may be inﬂuenced by omnibus contextual factors such as the demography of the occupation or organization. Sociological studies suggest that the demography of occupations and organizations reﬂects inequality among demographic groups (see Ridgeway, 1997). Within work teams these omnibus contextual factors are likely to inﬂuence inequality among demographic groups in terms of access to resources and power in the organization and will have consequences for process or performance