data/clean/13__chunk0396.md, before:

# Even if

The second key assumption when using cross-sectional data to consider effects associated with time is that characteristics of the hiring process (or internal selection or turnover processes) remained stable over time. If this is not true, speciﬁcation error may cause variables to appear to have an if the hiring process has changed, interaction with time. For example, resulting in employees with a different distribution of characteristics than those hired earlier, other correlated characteristics may falsely appear to be signiﬁcant if the model is not appropriately speciﬁed. Researchers can try to minimize this risk by having well-developed theoretical models which identify the variables to be measured and by ruling out alternative explanations for their ﬁndings. Nonetheless, this is a concern that in all likelihood cannot be fully mitigated.

Despite these limitations, though, cross-sectional research can play an important role for considering dynamic phenomena. Any longitudinal model of job performance that can be used to make predictions about job performance over time should also have implications if a ‘‘snap-shot’’ of the

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/13__chunk0396.md, after:

---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b7c29ad623ff02680257feefb3ee74c94965c2c2
title: '13'
---
# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

leaving (Trevor et al., 1997; Salamin & Hom, 2005), this would further restrict the distribution. Methodologically, this creates heteroskedasticity. More generally, it limits any potential causal implications that can be made when interpreting the interaction or differences across cohorts. Of course, this assumption can be tested in any given sample, such as by examining the distribution of the characteristic at various experience levels (e.g., using a median split). If not statistically signiﬁcantly different, one may have some conﬁdence that this ﬁrst assumption holds.

the independent variable included in the model does not speciﬁcally cause turnover, a second reason that the mean levels of a predictor may change with time is that the distribution of an independent selection processes. The variable may become restricted because of Attraction-Selection-Attrition (ASA) model (Schneider, 1987) suggests that through the process of recruitment, selection, and turnover, individuals self- select and are selected in ways that increase the similarity of individuals within the organization. This ﬁltering process may create the appearance of a relationship between these characteristics and performance. For example, even if a given characteristic, say a dimension of personality, is not related to performance, the simultaneous effects of learning for individuals who remain in the company in conjunction with the increase in homogeneity of individuals within the company over time could cause an interaction of the characteristic and time to appear signiﬁcant. Again, this concern may be tested by examining the distribution of the characteristic in question for various levels of the temporal variable.
