---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a8838943872ad13999127f21e732e0e7eaaad59d
title: '13'
---
## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

subjects model. While, as reviewed above, there is debate as to the extensiveness and rapidity of decreases in validity, both models are valuable for understanding why performance changes over time.

The Changing Subjects Model The changing subjects model (also referred to as the changing-person model; e.g., Keil & Cortina, 2001) posits that individuals possess various characteristics which result in (i.e., cause) performance (be it perfor- mance on a task or performance on a job; I will be focusing exclusively on job performance). While most uses of this model have considered abilities, it may also refer to characteristics such as motivation and job knowledge. Because these performance-causing characteristics change over time, perfor- mance levels change even if the contribution of these characteristics to performance remains constant (Adams, 1957; Alvares & Hulin, 1973; Deadrick & Madigan, 1990; Humphreys, 1960; Keil & Cortina, 2001).

While employed in an organization, a multitude of changes occur to an individual than can affect performance. For example, while holding a given job, an employee accumulates experience that then affects performance levels (e.g., McDaniel, Schmidt, & Hunter, 1988; Schmidt, Hunter, & Outerbridge, 1986; Sturman, 2003). Simultaneously, aging may affect performance (e.g., Lawrence, 1988; Rhodes, 1983; Salthouse, 1979; Sterns & Doverspike, 1989; Sturman, 2003; Waldman & Avolio, 1993). Because experience and age are related to job performance, the changes in the individual’s characteristics cause job performance to change with the passage of time. Although other models (discussed below) provide additional explanations as to why performance changes over time, research supports the changing subjects model as at least a partial explanation as to why performance changes over time (Deadrick & Madigan, 1990; Dunham, 1974). Indeed, much of the ﬁeld of training is based on the idea that individual characteristics which cause performance can be changed, so performance can be improved through effective training (e.g., Noe, 2005). The logic behind changing compensation plans is also similarly based on the idea that incentives can cause individuals to change in ways that affects their performance levels (e.g., Milkovich & Newman, 2005).

Certainly, there has been debate regarding the validity of the chan- ging subjects model, but much of this debate was caused by issues related to the deﬁnition of abilities. If one considers an ability to be a relatively static trait, then there are deﬁnitional ﬂaws with the changing subjects model if one deﬁnes it as changes in abilities causing performance changes. However, by broadening the model to consider abilities and

61

62
