# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

diversity in organizations. The study examined the effects of gender diversity on ﬁrm performance in two organizations and found support for an inverted U-shaped relationship between ﬁrm level gender composition and perfor- mance. However, the authors noted that in some industries it may not be possible to fully utilize the potential value of gender diversity. Speciﬁcally, they pointed out that the inverted U-shaped relationship between gender composition and performance was only observed in service/wholesale/retail industries which, in comparison with manufacturing/utilities and ﬁnance industries, are comprised of a higher proportion of women in general. The fact that the level of gender segregation is higher in the latter set of industries may reﬂect the inability of organizations in male-dominated industries to capitalize on the beneﬁts of gender diversity. Within work groups, gender segregation in the workplace may also reinforce status distinction between male and female work group members (Skaggs & DiTomaso, 2004), thereby inﬂuencing work group processes such as communications and information sharing, and ultimately group performance.

Geographic Location Communities in which organizations are located can also be a relevant contextual factor shaping the outcomes of diversity. As Brief et al. (2005) recently noted that community researchers have considered the role of proximity between minority and white individuals on inter-group relation- ships (Blalock, 1956; Giles, 1977). This research is based on the premise that perceptions of resource scarcity enhance the threat perceived from out- group members. As a result, dominant in-group members view increasing proportions of out-group members as a threat and respond by forming prejudicial attitudes towards them (Sherif, 1966; Sherif, Harvey, White, Hood, & Sherif, 1961). Based on this premise, researchers have looked at both the effect of the demographic composition of communities on the attitudes of white and minority individuals. At the community level of analysis, research suggests that the metropolitan concentrations of blacks was associated with occupational and income inequality in some geographic locations (Taylor, 1998). The proportion of blacks in communities has also been associated with higher levels of prejudice among white individuals (Blalock, 1956; Pettigrew, 1959; Taylor, 1998). Corroborating this research in an organizational setting, Brief et al. (2005) found that the closer whites lived to blacks, the more likely they were to perceive inter-ethnic conﬂict in their communities and respond negatively to black co-workers.

The inter-group contact perspective also suggests that the nature of interactions with diverse individuals outside the organization can shape the