---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7b7f5fa2b6fd99ecd7485c440c30b73fb71b8e78
title: '13'
---
## The Happy/Productive Worker Thesis Revisited

measure of research support (Cropanzano & Wright, 2001; Judge et al., 1998, 2001). Unfortunately, these two approaches to operationalizing worker happiness have seldom been considered concomitantly. Moreover, those infrequent investigations that simultaneously examine job satisfaction and PWB usually only consider main effects. As one example, consider the two ﬁeld studies reported by Wright and Cropanzano (2000). While Wright and Cropanzano explored the effects of PWB beyond those of job satisfaction, they did not consider the interaction between the two variables. While main effect studies have their place, ignoring the moderating effect of PWB is limiting, since there are good conceptual reasons to think that an interaction might take place.

Drawing on the stimulus of the ‘‘positive psychology’’ movement (Diener, 2000; Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi, 2000), a growing number of organiza- tional researchers have called for a more positive-based, proactive approach to organizational research. This approach has been termed POB (Luthans, 2002a, 2002b) and POS (Cameron et al., 2003; Pratt & Ashforth, 2003; Wrzesniewski, 2003). Luthans (2003, p. 179) deﬁned POB as ‘‘the study and application of positively-oriented human resource strengths and psycholo- gical capacities that can be measured, developed, and effectively managed for performance improvement in today’s workplace.’’ In a like manner, Cameron et al. (2003, p. 4) deﬁned POS as being ‘‘yconcerned primarily with the study of especially positive outcomes, processes, and attributes of organizations and their members. POS does not represent a single theory, but it focuses on dynamics that are typically described by words such as excellence, thriving, ﬂourishing, abundance, resilience, or virtuousness.’’ In particular, we suggest Fredrickson’s (1998, 2001, 2003) broaden-and-build model of positive emotions as one approach especially well-suited to help better understand the possible moderating role of PWB in the job satisfaction/job performance/employee retention relations.

it is useful to compare this growing work on positive emotions, typiﬁed by Fredrickson and others, with the more customary emphasis of prior work on negative emotions. Historically, the prevailing models of emotion attempted to illustrate the general form and function of emotions (Fredrickson, 2002). With that objective in mind, most models were devised around prototypic and negative emotions like anger and fear (Fredrickson, 2003). The underlying theme of these traditional approaches (cf., Frijda, 1986; Lazarus, 1991; Levenson, 1994) was that emotions, by deﬁnition, are associated with speciﬁc action tendencies. According to Fredrickson (2003, p. 166), a speciﬁc action tendency is best described ‘‘as the outcomes of a psychological process that

Before considering Fredrickson’s model,

289

290
