# tangible beneﬁts’’

Within organizations, social capital at the individual level is the product of one’s human capital and social networks. Burt (1997) has viewed human capital as individual ability and social capital as opportunity, where the organization provides opportunities through networks and individuals must possess the ability to take advantage of such opportunities. The mix of human capital and the ability to use social networks help deﬁne the personal reputations of organization members.

There are two opposing views on social capital development. Useem and Karabel (1986) suggested that social capital development results from ‘‘class-linked’’ personal contacts, whereas Coleman (1990) subscribed to the structural view, linking social capital to access to information and resources provided by structural networks. In either case, social capital helps to construct reputation because it conveys information concerning creditability that people will use to make judgments (Belliveau, O’Reilly, & Wade, 1996). Several empirical studies have supported the value of social capital in providing useful outcomes that may contribute to one’s reputation. For example, Siebert, Kraimer, and Liden (2001) found that social capital, through network development, had a positive impact on career success. Speciﬁcally, their study reported that access to information, resources, and mentoring were positively related to career success. To the extent that one can build a reputation for early success in one’s career, the development of networks and use of the social capital in these networks can facilitate such success. Kilduff and Krackhardt (1994) found that the perception that individuals associated with prominent friends at work sent a signal of importance or distinction, and favorably inﬂuenced those individuals’ performance reputations.

In a study of research scientists, Bouty (2000) discovered a positive relationship between social capital, measured by network afﬁliation, and