---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 24ff5bd0984c2a35a52a2db6c6c2eba70df277c2
title: '13'
---
# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

theoretical work on job performance that deﬁnes individual job perfor- mance as behaviors. Most typically, behavioral measures of job perfor- mance are based on ratings by a supervisor. Sometimes speciﬁc research tools are created for that purpose, but other times researchers rely on the supervisory ratings employed by an organization. With such ratings typically performed annually, the desired longitudinal study would require at least four years of data. The practical difﬁculties of soliciting this sort of data from an organization only increases the difﬁculty of performing the sort of research on job performance over time that the existing literature suggests is preferable.

Third, as has been discussed, research on dynamic performance has moved beyond the simple question of ‘‘is performance dynamic?’’ Research is needed into the functional form of performance trends, and more importantly, on the causes and consequences of these trends. Not only does this necessitate multiple years of supervisory evaluations, but other variables of interest must also be available. While companies may possess records of employee performance, the data required to advance the literature on performance over time make studies involving attitudinal data very difﬁcult. Fourth, longitudinal research designs require the use of methodologies that are more complex than most cross-sectional analyses. These issues will be discussed below, but may require complex treatments of error terms, methods more complex than OLS regression, methods for handling missing data, corrections for range restriction, and more.

The nature of any research involving time makes it highly desirable to use longitudinal data. Unfortunately, it is far easier to call for such research than it is to perform. So, while longitudinal designs are preferable for studying dynamic performance, they are no panacea.
