---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0b0543c1cd597e7ae534c960ee76466ae013e666
title: '13'
---
## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

role incumbents may change over time. For instance, in contrast to the views that prevailed for many decades of the previous century, females are now regarded as suitable for service as pilots in the U.S. Air Force. Another outcome is that organizational policies may change to somewhat reﬂect the needs of members of non-dominant groups. For example, as greater numbers of females have entered the U.S. workforce, many organizations have shown an increased acceptance of HRM policies and practices that are ‘‘family-friendly’’ (e.g., ﬂextime, maternity leaves).

Effects of Social System Culture on Non-Dominant Groups. As a result of not having as much power in social systems as members of dominant groups, members of non-dominant groups are typically placed in a position of having to either assimilate or be marginalized or eliminated (Berry, 1990, 1995; Brown, 1970; Deloria, 1994; Schneider, 1987; Stone-Romero et al., 2003). Not surprisingly, therefore, individuals in non-dominant groups often adopt some or all of the ideologies of the social system in which they in order to be are embedded (Arrows 1 and 3). Thus, for example, successful, business women often adopt their male counterparts. One dysfunctional consequence of this is that women who do so are disliked because they lack warmth (Fiske, Cuddy, Glick, & Xu, 2002) or are viewed as ‘‘bitches’’ (Heilman, 2001).
