data/clean/13__chunk0094.md, before:

## A Multilevel Framework for Work Team Diversity Research

nature of interactions within organizations and work groups. Pettigrew (1998) noted that ‘‘optimal contact’’ requires sustained long-term interac- tions with out-group members and highlights the role of individual’s past experiences with the out-group members and their value differences may shape the manner in which they approach inter-group contact situations. Further, using the strife in Northern Ireland and Quebec as illustrations, Pettigrew noted that the level of inter-group conﬂict in the immediate community might play a role in shaping the manner in which individuals approach inter-group contact situations. These perspectives suggest that individuals’ past experiences and encounters in the non-work domain can shape their interactions with out-group members within the work group.

Another approach to understanding the effects of community demo- graphics takes a very different view of how these demographics could shape group diversity outcomes. This approach, characterized as the customer- match perspective, views the community as a source of customers rather than employees’ social relationships. Studies taking this approach have found little support for the often-cited business case that assumes that ﬁrms are more likely to reap ﬁnancial beneﬁts when employee demographics match the demographics of the community. For example, Leonard, Levine, and Joshi (2004) examined whether the match between employee–customer demographics across 700 retail stores (including gender, race, and age) in a two mile radius around the stores predicted store ﬁnancial performance. Results indicated that store-community demographic match did not predict store performance. More recently, Sacco and Schmitt (2005) also did not ﬁnd support for this relationship in a large sample of quick service restaurants. these various approaches to understanding the effects of community demographics on the relationship between work group demo- graphics and performance suggest that, while important, community demo- graphics may have somewhat different implications for the outcomes of diversity than is conveyed by the customer matching perspective (that is also often the basis for the business case for diversity). These studies reviewed above suggest that community demographics may have a more immediate impact on interpersonal relationships in organizations rather than the organizational bottom-line and may therefore be an important consideration while examining the impact of diversity on interactional processes in the team.

Together,

National Culture/Country In a global economy, trends in worker migration and immigration have made diversity-related considerations fairly prevalent. In countries like South Africa, India, Japan, and the European Union, various aspects of

9

10

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/13__chunk0094.md, after:

---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f9c5803e3ccfdec9039f42cf00e89837be0173aa
title: '13'
---
# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

diversity in organizations. The study examined the effects of gender diversity on ﬁrm performance in two organizations and found support for an inverted U-shaped relationship between ﬁrm level gender composition and perfor- mance. However, the authors noted that in some industries it may not be possible to fully utilize the potential value of gender diversity. Speciﬁcally, they pointed out that the inverted U-shaped relationship between gender composition and performance was only observed in service/wholesale/retail industries which, in comparison with manufacturing/utilities and ﬁnance industries, are comprised of a higher proportion of women in general. The fact that the level of gender segregation is higher in the latter set of industries may reﬂect the inability of organizations in male-dominated industries to capitalize on the beneﬁts of gender diversity. Within work groups, gender segregation in the workplace may also reinforce status distinction between male and female work group members (Skaggs & DiTomaso, 2004), thereby inﬂuencing work group processes such as communications and information sharing, and ultimately group performance.

Geographic Location Communities in which organizations are located can also be a relevant contextual factor shaping the outcomes of diversity. As Brief et al. (2005) recently noted that community researchers have considered the role of proximity between minority and white individuals on inter-group relation- ships (Blalock, 1956; Giles, 1977). This research is based on the premise that perceptions of resource scarcity enhance the threat perceived from out- group members. As a result, dominant in-group members view increasing proportions of out-group members as a threat and respond by forming prejudicial attitudes towards them (Sherif, 1966; Sherif, Harvey, White, Hood, & Sherif, 1961). Based on this premise, researchers have looked at both the effect of the demographic composition of communities on the attitudes of white and minority individuals. At the community level of analysis, research suggests that the metropolitan concentrations of blacks was associated with occupational and income inequality in some geographic locations (Taylor, 1998). The proportion of blacks in communities has also been associated with higher levels of prejudice among white individuals (Blalock, 1956; Pettigrew, 1959; Taylor, 1998). Corroborating this research in an organizational setting, Brief et al. (2005) found that the closer whites lived to blacks, the more likely they were to perceive inter-ethnic conﬂict in their communities and respond negatively to black co-workers.

The inter-group contact perspective also suggests that the nature of interactions with diverse individuals outside the organization can shape the
