# About the Authors

conﬂict management, inﬂuence, and leadership. Her publications have appeared in Academy of Management Journal, Negotiation Journal, Journal of Applied Social Psychology, and Research in Organizational Behavior.

Christopher J. Meyer is an Assistant Professor in the Hankamer School of Business at Baylor University. He received his Ph.D. in management from Michigan State University. His research interests lie mainly in the area of human motivation. Speciﬁcally, his research focuses on the impact of such motivational forces as perceptions of fairness, emotions and power on negotiated organizational outcomes or the structure of negotiation – i.e., third parties or coalitions in negotiation. Meyer’s research has been published in the Academy of Management Journal, the Journal of Applied Psychology, and the Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association. In addition, Meyer’s work has been published in the Handbook of Organizational Justice and the Handbook of Negotiation and Culture.

Christopher Robert is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Management with a joint appointment in the Department of Psychological Sciences at the University of Missouri, Columbia. He received his Ph.D. in Industrial and Organizational Psychology from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1998. His primary research interests involve cross- cultural and international management issues, including the inﬂuence of culture on management practices and organizational outcomes, and cross- cultural methodology and measurement issues. He is also interested in small group interaction, negotiation and conﬂict, and most recently in humor and culture. His research has appeared in journals such as the Journal of Applied Psychology, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Journal of Management, and Personnel Psychology.

Hyuntak Roh is a doctoral student in Labor and Industrial Relations at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He received master’s degree in Human Resources and Industrial Relations from the same institution and in psychology from Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea. His has a B.A. principal research interests include workforce diversity, global teams, and employee turnover. Prior to his academic career, he has worked for Towers Perrin and Samsung Economic Research Institute in Korea.

Dianna L. Stone is a Professor of Management at the University of Texas at San Antonio. She received her Ph.D. from Purdue University. Her research focuses on a number of issues including diversity in organizations,

353

354