# THOMAS A. WRIGHT AND RUSSELL CROPANZANO

While job satisfaction has been operationalized in a number of ways, it is usually considered to be an attitude (Weiss & Cropanzano, 1996). According to Brief (1998, p. 86), job satisfaction can be best deﬁned as is expressed by affectively and/or cognitively ‘‘an internal state that evaluating an experienced job with some degree of favor or disfavor.’’ Paradoxically, the most widely used job satisfaction measures (i.e., the Minnesota Satisfaction Questionnaire, the Job Description Index, etc.) contain minimal, if any, affectively toned scale items (Brief & Roberson, 1989). Irrespective of how job satisfaction has been traditionally deﬁned, over the years, a number of applied scholars have considered the role of employee satisfaction as a correlate of any number of workplace outcome variables (e.g., Locke, 1969; Locke, 1976; Spector, 1997; Brief, 1998; Weiss, 2002). In this vein, Edward L. Thorndike (1922, p. 801) went so far as to propose a global measure of satisfaction or what he termed ‘‘satisfyingness’’ as the primary, fundamental aspect of human nature.

Interestingly, job satisfaction did not appear to be the job attitude of choice in the early days of applied psychology and management research (Kornhauser, 1933; Wright, 2005, for an additional review of early job attitude research, see Weiss & Brief, 2001 and Wright, 2006). For instance, even at a basic deﬁnitional level, a number of prominent researchers appeared to confuse and confound the terms ‘‘employee morale’’ and ‘‘job satisfaction’’ (Brayﬁeld & Crockett, 1951; Organ & Near, 1985; Roethlisberger, 1941). In fact, much to their surprise, Organ and Near (1985) noted that the term ‘‘job satisfaction’’ was completely absent from the index of Roethlisberger and Dickson’s (1939), Management and the Worker. Instead of job satisfaction, this seminal work on the Hawthorne experiments used such attitudinal terms as ‘‘sentiments’’ and ‘‘tone.’’ These are important distinctions because, as aptly noted by Organ and Near (1985, p. 242), terms like sentiments (and tone) indicated much more than just satisfaction with one’s job, but ‘‘referred to emotions, to feelings, to affect, to hedonic states.’’ However, a cursory examination of the classic writings in management and industrial psychology clearly demonstrates how surprisingly infrequently, up to about 1950, the term ‘‘job satisfaction’’ appeared in the literature (Organ & Near, 1985; Wright, 2006).

As a case in point, consider research published in the Journal of Applied Psychology (JAP). JAP commenced publication in 1917, during World War I. Over the ﬁrst quarter century of publication, from 1917 to 1941 to be exact, only two articles were published in JAP with the words ‘‘job/work satisfaction’’ in the title. In fact, surprisingly, the ﬁrst JAP article on job satisfaction was not published until 1937 by the pioneering researcher,