## Journal of Organizational Behavior, 24, 437–442.

Wright, T. A. (2005). The role of ‘happiness’ in organizational research: Past, present and future directions. In: P. L. Perrewe & D. C. Ganster (Eds), Research in occupational stress and well-being (Vol. 4, pp. 221–264). Amsterdam: JAI Press.

Wright, T. A. (2006). The emergence of job satisfaction in organizational research: A historical overview of the dawn of job attitude research. Journal of Management History, 12, 262–277.

Wright, T. A., & Bonett, D. G. (1992). The effect of turnover on work satisfaction and mental health: Support for a situational perspective. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 13, 603–615.

Wright, T. A., & Bonett, D. G. (1997). The role of pleasantness and activation-based well-being

in performance prediction. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 2, 212–219.

Wright, T. A., & Bonett, D. G. (2005). Using a Positive Organizational Behavior (POB) framework to better understand the role of job satisfaction, psychological well-being and job performance on employee retention. Paper presented at the 2005 meeting of the Academy of Management, Honolulu, Hawaii.

Wright, T. A., & Bonett, D. G. (2007). Job satisfaction and psychological well-being as

nonadditive predictors of workplace turnover. Journal of Management, 33, 141–160.

Wright, T. A., Bonett, D. G., & Sweeney, D. A. (1993). Mental health and work performance; Results of a longitudinal ﬁeld study. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 66, 277–284.

Wright, T. A., & Cropanzano, R. (1998). Emotional exhaustion as a predictor of job performance and voluntary turnover. Journal of Applied Psychology, 83, 486–493. Wright, T. A., & Cropanzano, R. (2000). Psychological well-being and job satisfaction as

predictors of job performance. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 5, 84–94.

Wright, T. A., & Cropanzano, R. (2004). The role of psychological well-being in job performance: A fresh look at an age-old quest. Organizational Dynamics, 33, 338–351. Wright, T. A., Cropanzano, R., Denney, P. J., & Moline, G. L. (2002). When a happy worker is a productive worker: A preliminary examination of three models. Canadian Journal of Behavioural Science, 34, 146–150.