---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 55c27c44306207b58672f978a1568b143aea9d4e
title: '13'
---
# THOMAS A. WRIGHT AND RUSSELL CROPANZANO

narrows a person’s momentary thought–action repertoire by calling to mind an urge to act in a particular way (e.g., escape, attack, expel).’’ In other words, a speciﬁc action tendency is what helps to get our attention (Wright & Cropanzano, 2004). For example, the negative emotion, fear, is associated with the urge to escape. The negative emotion, anger, is associated with the urge to attack, and so on (Fredrickson, 2003).

According to Fredrickson (2003, p. 165), the key to these traditional, negative-based, models ‘‘y is that speciﬁc action tendencies are what make emotions evolutionarily adaptive: these are among the actions that worked best in getting our ancestors out of life-or-death situations.’’ In other words, negative emotions narrowed behavioral urges toward speciﬁc actions for our human ancestors (e.g., ﬁght, ﬂight) that literally were life saving in nature (Fredrickson & Losada, 2005). Alternatively, the speciﬁc action tendencies for positive-based emotions are, by contrast, vague and under-speciﬁed (Fredrickson & Levenson, 1998; Fredrickson, 2003). As one example, the positive feelings associated with contentment have been linked with inactivity (Frijda, 1986). Recognizing this incompatibility of positive emotions with the basic premise of traditional models, Fredrickson developed her broaden-and-build model to help better capture the unique attributes and potential contributions of positive emotion.

According to Fredrickson’s (2001, 2003) broaden-and-build theory, a number of positive feeling states, traits or emotions, including the experience of PWB, all share the capacity to ‘‘broaden’’ an individual’s momentary thought–action repertories through expanding the obtainable array of potential thoughts and actions that come to mind (Fredrickson & Branigan, 2001). In particular, using laboratory experiments, Fredrickson and her colleagues (Fredrickson & Branigan, 2005; Fredrickson & Losada, 2005) demonstrated that relative to neutral states, positive emotions broaden or expand upon people’s momentary thought–action repertories, while negative emotions narrow these same mechanisms. For example, the positive emotion, interest, fosters the desire to explore, assimilate new experiences, encounter new information, and grow. Similarly, psychologically well individuals tend to be more outgoing and extroverted, remember favorable events better, and are less likely to encode an ambiguous event as threatening as compared with their less psychologically well counterparts (Wright, 2005).

these beneﬁts of broadened thought–action repertories merge over time. According to Fredrickson and Losada (2005, p. 679), these ‘‘broadened mindsets carry indirect and long-term adaptive value because broadenings y’’ assist in ‘‘building’’ the individual’s enduring personal resources, ranging from physical, psychological, intellectual, and

In addition,
