---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e0ef228771e07c6ab9f6fc5c34d61cef34be1e9e
title: '13'
---
## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

research has conﬁrmed that individuals’ subjective interpretations of their emotional states are inﬂuenced by humor. For example, Cann, Holt, and Calhoun (1999) found that participants who viewed a humorous videotape reported reduced anxiety and increased positive affect. Similarly, Abel and Maxwell (2002), in a study examining the combined effects of sense of humor and a humorous situation on stressful tasks, demonstrated that being exposed to a humorous stimulus alleviated anxiety and increased positive affect. Individuals’ sense of humor, and presumably their ability to interpret life events through the lens of humor, also appears to moderate the inﬂuence of both positive and negative life events such that a sense of humor is more strongly associated with positive affect after both positive and negative life events (Martin, Kuiper, Olinger, & Dance, 1993).

Although the connection between humor and subjective interpretation of emotion is important, it does not necessarily conﬁrm that the cognitive and emotional mechanisms of humor appreciation represent unique processes that are both important for humor appreciation. Such a demonstration is crucial, because incongruity by itself should not be sufﬁcient to cause amusement or humor appreciation. For example, the joke ‘‘Why did the chicken cross involves incongruity, but is clearly not ‘funny’ (if you found that funny, we feel badly for you). While one’s brain undoubtedly recognizes the incongruity in that ‘‘joke,’’ an additional process must be activated that distinguishes simple incongruity identiﬁcation (i.e., two incompatible things exist), and humorous incongruity interpretation that somehow links two presumably unrelated expectation systems and results in the unique subjective experience of mirth or amusement.
