---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0c2a79eaed785dc007608d07067741290017ee54
title: '13'
---
## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

8 and 11), affecting such properties of organizations as their norms, values, policies, and practices.3 Through their effects on organizational culture, the cultures of the same groups inﬂuence views about the ideal role incumbent, i.e., VSI conceptions for role incumbents (Arrow 12). Thus, for example, in the U.S., the ideal manager is typically viewed as a young, attractive, tall, physically ﬁt, heterosexual, male, white, Anglo-Saxon, Christian (e.g., Cox, 1993; Dipboye & Colella, 2005; Kanter, 1977; Korman, 1989; Stockdale & Crosby, 2004; Stone & Colella, 1996; Stone et al., 1992). Not only do organizational norms inﬂuence views about VSIs, but they also affect (a) the expectations that role senders develop about role incumbents and (b) the way in which role incumbents are treated by role senders (Katz & Kahn, 1978; Stone & Stone-Romero, 2004; Stone-Romero et al., 2003).

In the remainder of this article, we approach such issues as VSIs, stigmatization, and treatment of targets from the perspective of the observer being a member of a dominant group (e.g., a MWASP) and the target being a member of a non-dominant group (e.g., a minority group). One important reason for this is that members of dominant groups have the greatest capacity to inﬂuence views about VSIs and to control the outcomes that are allocated to such targets as job applicants and job incumbents (Stone- Romero & Stone, 2005).

Effects of Organizational Culture on Virtual Social Identity Our SIO model speciﬁes that organizational culture inﬂuences views about the VSIs of job applicants and/or incumbents (Arrow 12), including such factors as their race, ethnicity, gender, religion, expressed attitudes, scripts for performing role behaviors, and behavioral propensities (Cox, 1993; Katz & Kahn, 1978; Stockdale & Crosby, 2004; Stone & Stone-Romero, 2004; Stone-Romero et al., 2003). In this regard, literatures in such areas as identity theory (e.g., interpersonal attraction (e.g., Byrne, 1971), social Tajfel, 1974, 1978, 1981, 1982a, 1982b; Tajfel & Turner, 1979; Turner, 1982, 1987) and terror management theory (Solomon et al., 1991) all argue that individuals prefer dealing with similar others (i.e., those with similar worldviews). In addition, whereas people tend to have positive views about ingroup members, typically, their views about outgroup members are either less positive or negative (Tajfel, 1974, 1978, 1981, 1982a, 1982b; Tajfel & Turner, 1979; Turner, 1982, 1987). Thus, in organizations the for high status roles is generally one whose prototypical attributes mirror those of the dominant group (e.g., MWASP). However, outgroup members may be tolerated or even preferred for various low status roles (Kurzban & Leary, 2001). For example, the individuals who
