---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 430e046cddd32bef1112adf9877c929f771efd31
title: '13'
---
## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

familism, power differences among individuals, and long-term perspectives in planning (Hofstede, 1980, 1991; Triandis, 1994; Trompenaars & Hampden- Turner, 1998). Thus, extant research provides a solid basis for arguing that there are important differences among national cultures in terms of these and other dimensions. However, it also shows that there are often non-trivial differences among the characteristics of subcultures within nations.

Even though any nation may have individuals who are representatives of various cultures or subcultures, the fact that there are national differences in cultures suggests that either (a) there is consensus among members of various cultures or subcultures about such matters as appropriate norms, values, and behaviors or (b) national cultures are determined largely by the views of people in dominant groups. For example, whereas the belief systems connected with Christianity and the Protestant ethic have had a major impact on U.S. culture, the belief systems associated with Islam have had a profound inﬂuence on the cultures of many middle Eastern nations (e.g., Iraq, Syria, Iran; Smith, 1994; Weber, 1958). In addition, the belief systems of Islam have had only a minor impact on U.S. culture, and the teachings of Christianity have had only a minor inﬂuence on the cultures of many Middle Eastern nations.

Ideologies and Cultures There are often profound differences in the ideologies of nations and other social systems. Ideologies are sets of shared, interrelated beliefs about how things work, what is worth having or doing, and how people should behave (e.g., Trice & Beyer, 1993). Ideologies subsume culture, which can be deﬁned as ‘‘a set of collective, shared, learned values which represent a broad tendency to prefer certain states of affairs over others’’ (Hofstede, 1980, p. 25). As noted above, there is clear evidence of national differences in values (e.g., Hofstede, 1980, 1991). Thus, the same evidence supports the view that ideologies differ across nations.

Effects of National Culture on Organizational Culture Our SIO model posits that the culture of a nation inﬂuences the cultures of organizations within it (Arrow 2). This position is consistent with the views of Hofstede (1980, 1991) and others (Aycan et al., 2000; Erez & Earley, 1993; Trice & Beyer, 1993) who argue that national culture provides an ideological context for organizations, affecting such factors as (a) organizational values, (b) role expectations of job incumbents, and (c) standards used in judging the job performance of incumbents. For instance, as noted below, when the actual or stereotype-based attributes of
