# DðPÞ ¼ B0

0 þ B2ðt(cid:2)1Þ (cid:1) S þ B2ðtÞ (cid:1) S þ B3 (cid:1) ðDt (cid:2) Dðt(cid:2)1ÞÞ þ B4ðtÞ (cid:1) DðtÞ (cid:2) B4 (cid:1) Dðt(cid:2)1Þ þ e0

To help with explanation, this can be simpliﬁed as follows:

DðPÞ ¼ BI þ BA (cid:1) S þ BB (cid:1) DD þ BC (cid:1) Dt þ BD (cid:1) Dðt(cid:2)1Þ þ e

Note that by using a lagged variable, the stable effects associated with stable characteristics are eliminated from the model. Also in this model, BA represents evidence of the changing tasks model. If stable characteristics are related to performance after controlling for prior performance, then this can only occur if it is because the way in which the stable characteristics relate to performance change with time. Signiﬁcant coefﬁcients within Bc presents evidence of the changing subjects model, and signiﬁcant coefﬁcients of BD presents evidence of the simultaneous effects of both changing subjects and changing tasks.

A ﬂaw with the above model, though, is that the analysis of change scores is not always desirable (e.g., Edwards, 1994, 2001). While there are a number of issues related to difference in scores, most salient here is that modeling the change score above is equivalent to the following:

Pt ¼ BI þ BA (cid:1) S þ BB (cid:1) DD þ BC (cid:1) Dt (cid:2) BD (cid:1) Dðt(cid:2)1Þ þ ð1:0Þ (cid:1) Pðt(cid:2)1Þ þ e (6)

That is, it assumes that the effect associated with lagged performance is 1.0. If one is able to model performance longitudinally, there is little advantage to making this assumption. Rather, one should allow the model to estimate the effect of the lagged performance measure, as its interpretation can be quite useful. Hence, one should model

Pt ¼ BI þ BA (cid:1) S þ BB (cid:1) DD þ BC (cid:1) Dt (cid:2) BD (cid:1) Dðt(cid:2)1Þ þ BLag (cid:1) Pðt(cid:2)1Þ þ e (7)

If the performance model being used is fully speciﬁed, then BLag should be equal to one, an assumption that can be tested empirically.

The theoretical value of such a test, though, is not likely to be large. This is because research has already shown that performance trends tend to be non-linear (Deadrick et al., 1997; Ployhart & Hakel, 1998; Sturman et al., 2005). This means that, because job performance tends to follow a negatively accelerating curve, controlling for the linear effects of prior

65