# (d) The social structure model.

Fiske et al. (2002) proposed that emotions stem from stereotype- based information about outgroups. It affords as a basis for inferring liked, a target’s standing on the dimensions of warmth (e.g., nice, tolerant, good natured, well-intentioned, sincere) and competence (e.g., conﬁdent, independent, competitive, intelligent, skillful). Their research revealed that members of groups were viewed as falling into four general categories: (a) parasites who had a low standing on both dimensions (e.g., the poor, welfare recipients, the homeless, poor blacks), (b) successful competitors who were low on warmth and high on competence (e.g., the rich, Jews, feminists, Asians), (c) compliant subordinates who were high on warmth and low on competence (e.g., housewives, individuals with mental retardation, people with disabilities, the elderly), and (d) admired individuals who were high on both dimensions (e.g., Christians, Whites, students, middle-class people).

The standing of an outgroup or its members on the just-noted dimensions is important because it provides cues as to the implications of the group’s existence for the welfare of the observer and his or her ingroup. In addition, it affords a basis for inferring the types of emotions that will be elicited through contact with various types of outgroup members: First, outgroups that are thought to be warm, but not competent are not regarded as a threat because their low competence does not enable them to change the status quo. Thus, members of such groups are the targets of paternalistic prejudice, and the emotions evoked by them include pity, compassion, and sympathy (Colella & Stone, 2005). Second, outgroups that are regarded as low on warmth and high on competence are viewed as posing a considerable threat to the ingroup. Thus, they are the objects of envious prejudice, resulting in