---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a86d02d412267852b00671e9b4ebc43bacfcfbc9
title: '13'
---
## Third Party Interventions across Cultures

motivational orientation. Kressel and Pruitt (1989), however, note that for many disputes mediation is unable to accomplish these goals because the intervention is too short and the relationship problems are too entrenched. Relationship enhancement is not necessarily a primary goal of other reviewed procedures. Fact ﬁnders and arbitrators (of all ‘‘stripes’’) generally view improving relations among the disputants as beyond the scope of their authority. In the hybrid procedures of med-arb and arb-med, however, restoring broken trust; deescalating relationship enhancement emotional conﬂict) is possible in the mediation phases, although ultimately ensuring a decision rather than improving the relationship is their primary mandate. Med-arb, for example, allows the possibility for parties to increase levels of understanding and cooperation, sometimes resulting in voluntary agreements before the implementation of the arbitration phase. Arb-med in a sense helps to preserve relationships by imposing structure and deadlines around the ﬁnal mediation phase and discouraging uncooperative delaying and posturing behaviors.

(e.g.,

Both individualist and collectivist cultures might be predicted to beneﬁt from enhancing relationships, but for different reasons and perhaps to different degrees. For individualists, it encourages cooperation and potential integration of individual interests for a better solution and reduction of it is important to maintain harmony future conﬂict. For collectivists, and reduce potential animosity between individuals and the collective. In hierarchical cultures, however, we might ﬁnd that this criteria is not as relevant, as low status individuals may be comfortable simply taking the advice of a third party to behave in a certain way toward the other party. In this case, they would follow the instruction, regardless of whether or not the procedure enhanced the relationship.

Commitment to Implement the Settlement For many disputes, the parties must work together to implement the settlement, whether voluntary or imposed (Elangovan, 1995; Carnevale et al., 1989). When the disputants are committed to implementing the settlement, they are more likely to do so fully and enduringly; when one party is not so committed, s/he may simply fail to carry out the settlement and the other party may have to return to a third party forum to attempt to force compliance.

to implement a settlement. For example, McEwen and Maiman (1989) report that most disputants using mediation with small claims disputes are likely to implement the agreement whereas slightly less than half of those going to court implemented the judge’s decision. Presumably, this is because people

Procedural design may impact
