---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b6067413b50c23f19ccb313b3995a9cb538cccb9
title: '13'
---
# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

whether certain diversity variables would be salient in particular cultural contexts would be an important consideration. Diversity attributes that are important in a US setting may not be relevant in certain national contexts and ﬁeld studies that examine these diversity attributes in certain cultures may not ﬁnd signiﬁcant relationships between diversity and team outcomes (Schippers et al., 2003).

At the discrete level, the nature of the tasks that teams perform could the ‘‘teams’’ explain non-signiﬁcant relationships. To the extent included in study samples are administrative units and team members tasks are additive and do not involve goal or outcome interdependence may serve to minimize the possible negative or positive effects of diversity. Twenty ﬁve percent of studies we reviewed were conducted in settings where the nature of the teams were unspeciﬁed and included various departments or were generically classiﬁed as ‘‘management teams’’. Although as indicated in Table 2a, a number of studies do account for team interdependence (measured using a perceptual scale) in their research design, the nature of tasks and associated rewards may be more complex than can be accounted for by a single task interdependence measure. Indeed, Mowday and Sutton (1993) have argued that relying on perceptual measures of context from the sample that is also included in the study may provide inaccurate and incomplete assessments of context. They suggest that context be measured more directly by using samples that display systematic variation in the contextual variable or include objective measures of the context.
