data/clean/13__chunk0857.md, before:

# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

current section, in which our goal is to employ theory from cross-cultural research to examine how culture might inﬂuence humor processes.

To organize our discussion of this topic, we divide our analysis of cultural inﬂuences into the three categories represented by each of the humor process mechanisms discussed previously: socio-motivational, cognitive, and emo- tional. However, the conceptualization of ‘‘culture’’ for this purpose is not a simple matter, and it is important that we address this issue. Culture has been conceptualized in many different ways. For instance, Kluckhohn (1954) uses the analogy that culture is to society as memory is to the individual. Hofstede (1991) describes culture as a collective programming of the mind. At a somewhat more concrete level, Triandis (1994) describes culture as what ‘‘has worked’’ for a society, and what is worth passing on. Dawkins (1989) labels these speciﬁc elements of culture ‘‘memes,’’ and suggests that like genes, memes replicate themselves through transmission from generation to generation within a society. Although speciﬁc conceptualizations of culture can vary substantially, they all highlight the notion that culture is shared by members of a society. In addition, they indicate that because culture is pervasive across people and time within a society, individuals are unlikely to be consciously aware of their own cultural values, beliefs, and assumptions. It is this unconscious inﬂuence on our behavior that makes the examination of culture so fundamentally interesting, and so practically important as the world shrinks and people from different cultures come into increasing contact. Most of the cross-cultural literature on the inﬂuence of culture on human behavior, in organizational contexts and otherwise, has focused on dimensions of culture. Cultural dimensions are coherent sets of values, beliefs, or assumptions about the social or physical environment, which are meaningful to people around the world (i.e., people everywhere understand what you are talking about when you describe a dimension), but differ in strength of endorsement across societies. A great deal of the literature has focused on dimensions identiﬁed and/or developed by Hofstede (1980) in his seminal work at IBM (i.e., power distance, individualism–collectivism, masculinity–femininity, and uncertainty avoidance). Of these, the dimension of individualism–collectivism has clearly received the most empirical and theoretical attention, and appears to have important effects on cognition and behavior (see Triandis, 1995, for a comprehensive review). Power distance has also received considerable attention, and a number of authors have suggested that power distance might be particularly important in organizational contexts (e.g., Earley & Gibson, 1998). In our analysis, we focus substantially on individualism–collectivism and power distance to develop propositions about the inﬂuence of culture on humor processes.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/13__chunk0857.md, after:

---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f77e02561fd7ca851fc955f024a295a8003828c2
title: '13'
---
# HUMOR AND CULTURE

‘‘A difference of taste in jokes is a great strain on the affections.’’ (George Eliot)

In Albert Brooks’ recent ﬁlm ‘‘Looking for Comedy in the Muslim World,’’ there’s a scene in which Brooks is standing in front of a large audience in a theater in India. He tells a joke that is greeted with absolute silence. After a moment, he says to the crowd ‘‘If you speak English, would you raise your hand?’’ Of course all 500 or so people raise their hands, to which Brooks says under his breath ‘‘Oh God.’’ Certainly, the sense of utter embarrassment and extreme awkwardness arising from this failure to communicate is a feeling that most people who have interacted with people from different cultures have undoubtedly experienced in relation to humor, if on a smaller scale. Indeed, such experiences have led some people who consult about cross-cultural communication to conclude that humor is a topic that is best avoided when communicating with someone from a different culture. But, given humor’s ability to enhance the effectiveness of communications, and its ubiquity across people and contexts, we believe a better strategy might be to understand humor and its relationship with culture better through systematic research. The preceding sections on humor theory and humor’s effects in organizations provide the backdrop for the

233

234
