---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b03ecbdc50976b5c4abeecc868a896597aec354b
title: '13'
---
## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

(Arrows 20 and 21). Consistent with Stone-Romero and Stone (2005), we consider treatment-related issues in terms of three types of justice, i.e., distributive, procedural, and interactional.

Distributive Justice. Equity norms in the U.S. stress that a person’s outcomes should be proportional to his or her inputs (Adams, 1963; Leventhal, 1976, 1980). In this regard, it merits noting that equity theory treats such characteristics as gender, race, disability, attractiveness, and social status as inputs that may serve as a basis for allocating differential levels of outcomes to targets (Adams, 1963; Leventhal, 1976, 1980). In addition, because of to non-stigmatized individuals, people who are marked are generally viewed as contributing fewer inputs. Thus, relative to people who are free of stigmas, marked individuals are viewed as less deserving of positive outcomes and more deserving of negative outcomes (Stone-Romero & Stone, 2005). As a result, for instance, when a non-disabled, MWASP allocator in the U.S. makes judgments about the relative inputs and deserved outcomes of various workgroup members: (a) whites will be regarded as more deserving of positive outcomes than blacks, and (b) people with disabilities will be seen as less deserving of positive outcomes than are people who are free of disabilities.

category-based expectancies,
