# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

phenomenon observed in people performing manual tasks. The theory, supported by empirical evidence, suggests that with the repetition of a task, the performance of that task improves predictably. The advances to this domain of literature have been in the analytical methods used to represent the functional form of the relationship, methods to estimate the required parameters, and applications of these methods in industrial settings.

The value of Learning Curve Theory for the dynamic performance literature is that it posits a speciﬁc functional form that performance should follow. Essentially, the literature related to Learning Curve theory describes the nature of aggregated employee performance over time. Although based on considering performance at an aggregated level, my purpose of reviewing Learning Curve Theory is to demonstrate its value of (re)applying it to the individual-level of analysis.

At its core, Learning Curve Theory stipulates that people learn by doing (Teplitz, 1991). It was originally developed in the psychological literature to describe the rate in which individuals learn how to perform a repetitive, manual task (Kjerstad, 1919; Thurstone, 1919), but it was soon applied to the task of predicting production rates and production costs in manufactur- ing settings (e.g., Wright, 1936). The theory posits, with repeated examples of empirical support, that as experience with a task increases, the resources required to complete the task (usually labor hours or price per unit) decreases. More speciﬁcally, it is held that as the quantity of production doubles, the resources needed to complete the production will be reduced by a constant percentage (called the learning rate; Yelle, 1979). Additionally, this learning rate is expected to be consistent for every doubling of production, a phenomenon known as the ‘‘doubling effect.’’ Much of the research and use of Learning Curve Theory has been involved in the estimation of this learning rate, or the development of methods to estimate the learning rate more accurately.

Because of the strong emphasis on the mathematics of the theory’s premise, methodological representations of the learning curve have played a very important role in the Learning Curve Theory literature. The most common representation of the learning curve is the log-linear model, also called the Wright model, represented as follows: