---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d877e2498cc00cc608df17cc96acd3a39bce15d8
title: '13'
---
## THEORETICAL FOUNDATIONS OF REPUTATION IN ORGANIZATIONS

The theoretical model presented in this paper not only supports the assumptions presented by Ferris et al. (2003), but also suggests several more. First, individuals will compare themselves with their peers (Festinger, 1954), and if that image does not match the impression they hold in their minds regarding their self worth or perceived worth by others (Baumeister, 1982a, 1982b), they may act in a reputation-building manner (Caste & Burke, 2002). Second, reputations are created by referent others who discuss observed or reported actions (Elmer, 1984; Carroll, Green, Houghton, & Wood, 2003).

Third, we contend that the formation of a reputation is contingent upon behavior deviating from the norm (Haviland, 1977; Levin & Arluke, 1987). Personal reputations are formed by standing out from the pack, by doing something different. Finally, we suggest that reputations are used to reduce uncertainty regarding an individual’s future behavior (e.g., Kreps & Wilson, 1982; Milgrom & Roberts, 1982; Ferris et al., 2003).

Although the use of the term reputation is omnipresent in everyday work life, its scientiﬁc examination has been surprisingly neglected. With the exception of common anecdotal use, the fact of the matter is that we simply know very little about personal reputation, and how and why it is important. Consideration of the above assumptions begins to illuminate the factors that contribute to the formation of a reputation. Indeed, our model
