---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 71c544f9e24d01ac25e456f0815da8831316b32c
title: '13'
---
# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

in earlier waves of the study (such as in trying to estimate coefﬁcients explaining performance trends), then list-wise deletion generally performs worse than all other missing data techniques (Newman, 2003).

In his study of missing data techniques for longitudinal research, Newman (2003) concluded that list-wise deletion should be avoided, and instead one should employ maximum likelihood or multiple imputation approaches. Both of these approaches were shown to work best when generating parameter estimates; the full information maximum likelihood (a form of maximum likelihood estimation) and multiple imputation methods worked best for estimating standard errors. Based on this research, if one is studying longitudinal performance data and needs to employ a missing data technique, it appears that full information maximum likelihood or multiple imputation should be used. To date, this has not occurred for research on dynamic performance.

If one wants to employ LGCM, then missing data is a major concern because the technique requires the same number of observations per subject. Fortunately, programs like LISREL, AMOS, Mplus, and SAS provide routines for implementing FIML (e.g., in LISREL, one adds the command ‘‘mi=.’’ to the data step). On the other hand, one can avoid the missing data issue by using HLM, which does not require balanced data (although at least two points of data are needed to model a linear effect, three to model a quadratic effect, and so on, so missing data may still be an issue for analyses performed with HLM). This once again raises the debate as to whether one should use a LGCM or HLM approach. Currently, the issue cannot be resolved; each technique has advantages and disadvan- tages, and more methodological research is needed to speciﬁcally con- sider these sorts of issues for dynamic performance research. Given the importance of the contrast between HLM and LGCM approaches, research is needed on missing data techniques (or not using missing data techniques) for empirical work speciﬁcally on job performance over time. The ﬁeld needs to know the consequences of choosing HLM over LGCM, and if job performance can be considered MAR or if it is NMAR.

In short, while advances in methodology present exciting opportunities for the analysis of longitudinal data, the nature of studying job performance over time creates speciﬁc problems that may inﬂuence the utility of these new techniques. Until the ﬁeld has a better understanding of these speciﬁc issues, the interpretation of longitudinal results will always be open to some question.
