---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 11eaae9450872278755b34959e50d87c7db2850a
title: '13'
---
## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

HLM approaches for modeling performance trends. It is often espoused that theory should drive analytical models, and given the difﬁculty in justifying the form of highly parameterized polynomial models, it would be desirable to have a tested theoretical rationale upon which to base model design. In the operations literature, Learning Curve Theory has provided this sort of insight at an aggregated level of performance. The theory has the opportunity to provide similar guidance at the individual-level of analysis. Learning Curve Theory should also be able to shed light on to the nature of how error terms are related over time. One of the key advantages of the LGCM approach is the ﬂexibility of its form. This ﬂexibility comes at the cost of additional parameters needing to be estimated (Rovine & Molenaar, 2001). Learning Curve Theory can shed light on more than just the nature of job performance trends, but also on the form of the model’s error structure. By having a better understanding of the functional form of job performance over time, including of and between its coefﬁcients and for its error terms, future research will be better able to employ the LGCM approach by ﬁxing certain parameters based on appropriate theoretical estimates. This leads to a second set of research questions:

(cid:4) How can Learning Curve Theory be applied to modeling job performance
