---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d21da44088af694f6fdd91a1f2ea0e36f3c99107
title: '13'
---
## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

a social system. Speciﬁcally, he proposed that humor will have its most positive effects on social integration and cohesiveness when the producer and audience perceive each other as members of an ingroup. This might even include humor with a disparaging tone delivered in an ingroup, because ‘‘criticism is considered a prerogative of group members’’ (pp. 119–120), and it is acceptable for members of an ingroup to poke fun at their own faults and weaknesses (as later demonstrated by Scogin & Pollio, 1980). Importantly, though, when the producer and audience are not perceived to be part of the same ingroup, humor that targets the ingroup will tend to emphasize intergroup distinctions, or be perceived as an attempt by the humor producer to control others’ behavior. Thus, humor will harm cohesiveness. In contrast, consistent with social identity theory (Tajfel & Turner, 1986), when the butt of humor is seen as outgroup, the effect of humor is to increase the esteem of the ingroup.

The importance of the ingroup/outgroup status of the parties to a humorous communication suggests that individualism and collectivism might be useful constructs for understanding how humor might contribute to or detract from cohesiveness. Individualism is characterized by the relative ease with which individuals are accepted as part of the ingroup. In contrast, collectivists are slower to ‘‘warm up’’ to others and consider them ingroup, but once an individual is accepted as part of the ingroup, the bond is less transitory than bonds for individualists (Triandis, 1995). This suggests that if one attempts to use humor with a collectivist audience, particularly if the humor can be perceived as derogating the ingroup, it is particularly important that he or she is perceived as a member of the ingroup. However, if one is an accepted member of the ingroup, learned predispositions toward positive affect are likely present, and the use of humor might be particularly effective at creating cohesiveness, regardless of its tone.

Humor and Hierarchy The idea that humor use is related to organizational culture and to motivations to retain power or control has been discussed by a number of authors (e.g., Dwyer, 1991; Kahn, 1989; Stephenson, 1951). In the section on motivational mechanisms, we noted that some literature supports a ‘‘high status humor monopoly’’ view of humor in organizations, which suggests that humor occurs mostly in a downward direction through the hierarchy (e.g., Bradney, 1957; Coser, 1960, Holmes, 2000; Lundberg, 1969). However, some research has shown that high status people in some contexts use light-hearted teasing humor, or even self-deprecating humor (Vinton, 1989). In addition, other research has described cases in which lighthearted

239

240
