---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6eb7c8503cfdd40c63832d383d847bdcbd0a2e3f
title: '13'
---
## leadership, and work values in organizations

Recently, there have been some studies that have incorporated the effects of culture on the outcomes of diversity in organizations. Van Der Vegt, Van De Vliert, and Huang (2005) examined the effects of Hofstede’s power distance dimension on the impact of demographic diversity on organization level innovative climates. The authors argued that since demographic diversity is associated with status differences, the effects of demographic diversity would differ low power distance cultures. Supporting these propositions the study found that, in low power distance cultures, tenure and functional diversity were positively associated with innovative climates, while in high power distance cultures diversity was negatively associated with innovative climates. These effects were not, however, found for age or gender diversity. The study raises important issues regarding the role of culture in shaping the outcomes of diversity. The extent to which equality or inequality is emphasized in a culture may shape the diversity dynamics within work groups. Other aspects of culture that emphasize the extent to which individuals feel interdependent on group members may also shape the extent to which diversity plays out in group settings. Kirkman and Shapiro (2001) examined the extent to which national culture moderated the effects of individual team members’ cultural values on resistance to self-managing teams. Their results indicated that, in high power distance and collectivistic contexts, individual employees are less likely to express disagreements or discomfort with employment practices such as self-managing teams. In these contexts, the relationship between employee cultural orientation and resistance to teams was weaker than in low power distance and individualistic settings. Together, the studies reviewed above suggest that country location as well as national culture can play an important role in shaping the outcomes of diversity. With the growing internationalization of diversity research as well as the increasing multiculturalism of the US workplace, the role of national culture in shaping the effects of diversity is likely to increase in relevance.
