---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9121c2d343f5beb5eac5f1cb86a71e1793ec90a7
title: '13'
---
## Third Party Interventions across Cultures

their own voluntary agreement in order to avoid a potentially unattractive imposed outcome. Mediators, on the other hand, have the objective to facilitate parties to generate agreements, but since they do not have decision control, outcomes are voluntary and therefore not always certain. Mediators also have the discretion to end their involvement in a dispute at any time, regardless of whether a solution was forthcoming or not, if they feel the parties are not bargaining in good faith. Terminating their involvement may be one of the mediator’s key sources of power that can put considerable pressure on one or both parties in a dispute. Arbitrators, regardless of the form of arbitration, are contractually engaged to resolve a dispute and cannot decide they no longer want to be involved. Certainty of an outcome therefore, is highest for the different forms of binding and FOA arbitration procedures.

Certainly within cultures, preferences around certainty for settlement would vary across different situations and disputes. Acknowledging this variance within culture, there still may be cultural differences on preference for guaranteed outcomes as opposed to less certain outcomes reﬂecting cultural values around propensity for risk or uncertainty avoidance.

Is a voluntary agreement reached? Some procedures (e.g., arbitration) specify that the third party is required to fashion and impose a settlement, whereas others (e.g., mediation and fact-ﬁnding) encourage voluntary agreement and allow participants to fashion that solution in whatever way they wish (Conlon, 1988). For some disputants, this dimension is crucial to determining procedural choice (Pierce, Pruitt, & Czaja, 1993). Yet, even it is possible for voluntary with arbitration or the hybrid procedures, agreements to be reached before a third party generated solution is imposed. Just as judges sometimes mediate in their chambers, some arbitrators will, upon rare occasion, mediate. Arbitrators sometimes allow the parties to have ‘‘one last chance’’ to negotiate privately prior to hearing the third party’s decision. Thus, one relevant dimension that must be considered when comparing various third party procedures is whether a dispute is settled voluntarily vs. whether the decision is imposed by a third party (Carnevale et al., 1989).

With all other factors being equal, in some cultures (perhaps those with individualist and egalitarian values) it is generally assumed that procedures where the parties voluntarily resolve conﬂicts are better (or are at least perceived more favorably by disputants) than those where a decision is imposed by the third party (Kressel & Pruitt, 1989; Brett & Goldberg, 1983). We might ﬁnd in hierarchical and collectivist cultures, however, there is less desire for voluntary resolution, as disputants might be comfortable agreeing

329

330

DONALD E. CONLON ET AL.

to an imposed settlement because it is designed to meet the needs of the group – especially if a high status third party is responsible for making the decision. Furthermore, those ‘‘lower’’ in the hierarchy would actively avoid taking part in the creation of a settlement, with the assumption that those of higher position or status have the responsibility, knowledge, or skill to do so. In some cases, we might even imagine a great resistance to lower status individuals being forced to participate in solution generation. In one author’s own consulting experiences in China, lower status workers were often highly resistant to resolving any problems they considered ‘‘manager’s work’’ and did not want the responsibility for decisions (perhaps not to be blamed in the future if things went wrong). This makes the implementation of Western ‘‘empowerment’’ and ‘‘participation’’ initiatives difﬁcult.

Probability of an Integrative Settlement If a settlement is reached, whether by voluntary agreement or by third party decision, then the nature of that settlement must be considered. Simply securing a settlement for the sake of having a settlement may result in relatively poor outcomes for one or all of the disputants. Some procedures may lend themselves to high ‘‘quantity and quality of facts, ideas, or arguments elicited’’ (Sheppard, 1984, p. 169), which in turn leads to ﬁnding integrative (‘‘win-win’’) agreements. Integrative agreements typically involve creative problem solving and/or combining several issues to fashion a ‘‘package deal’’. Mediation is often identiﬁed as a procedure that facilitates the production of integrative agreements that are ‘‘mutually beneﬁcial’’, ‘‘lasting’’, and high in ‘‘overall success’’ (Carnevale et al., 1989; Carnevale & Henry, 1989; Carnevale & Pruitt, 1992). Similarly, med-arb and arb-med have been shown to promote integrative problem-solving in their respective mediation phases (Conlon et al., 2002; McGillicuddy et al., 1987). While fact-ﬁnding in itself does not facilitate agreements directly, it encourages subsequent discussions that can lead to voluntary integrative solutions via the ‘‘focal point’’ mechanism discussed earlier.

Integrative agreements often have objectively higher payoffs than compromises, where issues are frequently ‘‘split down the middle’’. Conventional arbitration is often criticized for producing such compro- mises. While binding arbitrators do have the power to impose integrative their decisions are usually limited by the agreements on disputants, positions, perspectives, and offers the disputants choose to present, and often result in the arbitrator simply choosing a middle ground (Feuille, 1975). In FOA, night baseball, and double FOA, disputants have the
