# THOMAS A. WRIGHT AND RUSSELL CROPANZANO

a job satisfaction/performance relationship has continued to the present day (Judge, Thoresen, Bono, & Patton, 1998, 2001).

Several reviews have provided excellent summaries of the job satisfaction/ job performance relation. In probably the earliest review regarding a possible link between work-related attitudes and job performance, Houser (1927, p. 27) concluded ‘‘y very high employee morale was not accompanied by a correspondingly high quality of employee performance.’’ Likewise, Kornhauser and Sharp (1932, p. 402) similarly concluded in their seminal article that ‘‘y efﬁciency ratings of employees showed no relationship to their attitudes.’’ Roughly 20 years later, in reviewing the growing body of literature to date, Brayﬁeld and Crockett (1955, p. 421) concluded that ‘‘satisfaction y need not imply strong motivation to outstanding performance.’’ Similar conclusions were determined in a later review by Vroom (1964), who reported that the median association between these two variables was a rather modest +.14. Roughly 20 years after Vroom, a highly inﬂuential meta-analytic review by Iaffaldano and Muchinsky (1985) obtained a mean corrected correlation of +.17. Together, these reviews generated concern regarding the robustness of the relation between job satisfaction and performance (e.g., Cherrington, Reitz, & Scott, 1971; Fisher, 1980; Locke, 1976; Podsakoff & Williams, 1986; Staw, 1986). More recently, other studies have called these modest conclusions into question.

According to Judge and his colleagues (1998, 2001), while Iaffaldano and Muchinsky’s (1985) .17 statistic is widely cited, it is often misunderstood. Speciﬁcally, the reported .17 is not the average association of overall job satisfaction to performance. Rather, this coefﬁcient represents the average of the correlations between the facet measures of job satisfaction (e.g., pay, co-worker, promotion, supervision, work itself, etc.) and job performance. When one conﬁnes the analysis to overall satisfaction, the corrected correlation is actually a respectable .29 (Judge et al., 2001). Likewise, Petty, McGee, and Cavender (1984) place the job satisfaction to job performance relation at +.31 for professional workers. Certainly correlations in the .30 range are large enough to have ﬁnancial ‘‘competitive advantage’’ or signiﬁcant practical consequences for work organizations (cf., Cascio, 1991; Judge, Hanisch, & Drankoski, 1995; Wright, 2005). Unfortunately, Organ (1988b, Chapter 4) cautioned that Petty et al.’s analysis might have included performance criteria that were contaminated by indexes of citizenship the most behavior. In an attempt comprehensive (and promising for job satisfaction proponents) qualitative and quantitative analysis of the relation to date was undertaken by Judge et al. (1998, 2001).

to address these inconsistencies,