data/clean/13__chunk0867.md, before:

# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

Kim (1994) who found that members of collectivistic cultures attribute higher importance to not hurting the hearer’s feelings than members of individualistic cultures. Members of individualistic cultures, in contrast, put more emphasis on conversational clarity. All other things being equal, it follows that individuals in collectivist societies might engage in humor more frequently as a means of saving face.

Humor in Tight Cultures Rules for the acceptable use of humor in tight societies or in tight organizational cultures are likely to be complex. Tightness implies that strong and clear norms for appropriate behavior are in place, perhaps manifest as rules or bureaucratic procedures. One common and effective way that individuals use humor and incongruity is by contrasting an established worldview (e.g., the acceptable way to do things) in a novel way with a different worldview (Davis, 1993). This style of humor can open peoples’ eyes to alternative perspectives, thereby representing a subversive threat or challenge to the established order. Because this type of subversive humor attacks core assumptions, beliefs, and values, it is unlikely to be tolerated in tight environments. In work contexts embedded in tight cultures, where formal and unspoken rules for appropriate behavior are likely to be strong, humor might be considered inconsistent with a perception that work is ‘‘serious,’’ (Morreall, 1991), and might be perceived as unproductive or distracting. This also suggests that tight environments might be similarly intolerant of distracting humor that employs weakly held belief systems, such ‘‘silly’’ humor (e.g., slapstick, vulgar humor).

On the other hand, Haig (1988) notes that humor often has a powerful ‘conservative’ inﬂuence. He notes that humor is often used to deﬁne ingroups and outgroups, reinforce the power structure, and communicate the accepted group norms and values. He cites examples of a number of societies in which humor is used in the form of ridicule and humiliation to punish and correct the behavior of those who violate rules. Thus, if humor is used in tight cultures, we expect it to be directed toward the maintenance of the social order and organizational discipline.

Humor, Cohesiveness, and Individualism–Collectivism As discussed earlier, the role of humor in the development of interpersonal cohesiveness appears to be one of its major social functions. In examining this issue, Martineau (1972) suggested that understanding relationships between parties to humor (i.e., producer, audience, and target or ‘butt’) is essential for understanding the interpretations of humor, and ultimately, its effects within

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/13__chunk0867.md, after:

---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3578890ae31fed0f25b2da4b7022531830c1faf2
title: '13'
---
# Culture and Motivational Mechanisms

Face and Humor One of the more important drivers of communication norms in many cultures is the concept of ‘face.’ Face refers to ‘‘a claimed sense of favorable social self- worth that a person wants others to have of her or him’’ (Ting-Toomey & Kurogi, 1998, p.187). The importance of face is thought to be universal, as is the perception that face is a vulnerable resource because it can be easily enhanced or threatened in social interactions. Politeness theory (Brown & Levinson, 1987) contends that humor might be an important tool for saving the face of both speakers and listeners, because it can be used to camouﬂage otherwise face-threatening aggressive or insulting communication, to indicate solidarity, and to help avoid conﬂict by releasing repressed feelings (Holmes, 2000). In other words, individuals might be motivated to use humor that can ‘‘mask’’ communications, which, unvarnished, are likely to harm the face of the speaker or listener. Consider the following example:

The boss turns to an employee who was absent from work the previous day: Tell me what happened yesterday, but don’t forget that your grandmother has already died twice. (Ziv, 1984, p. 34)

In this example, the boss is asking for the subordinate’s explanation for absence, but in the interest of maintaining solidarity, the boss avoids being overtly challenging and conveys dissatisfaction by an indirect route. The humorous approach helps the subordinate save face and softens the situation with little loss of underlying message.

Although the use of humor as a face-saving technique is likely common and universal, the extent to which this function of humor is practiced might differ across cultures. Conversational constraints theory (Kim, 1993) contends that individualist and collectivist societies have different levels of preferences for face-saving behaviors. In collectivistic societies, individuals’ sense of identity is deﬁned substantially by their interdependent relations with others. Because interpersonal harmony and preference for afﬁliation are strongly emphasized, collectivists have a stronger preference for face- saving behaviors in conversation than do individualists. This is supported by

237

238
