## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

funny when the features of a primary expectation system are diminished in importance when the incongruity established by the second expectation system is elicited. In the ‘‘ﬂy in my soup’’ joke, the importance or reasonableness of the customer’s complaint is diminished when the second expectation system regarding the limited digestive capacity of a ﬂy is introduced. That is, the customer’s complaint is initially perceived to be based on how disgusting it is to have a ﬂy in one’s soup. However, the shift in interpretation elicited by noting the ﬂy’s limited digestive capacity diminishes the importance of the customer’s complaint, which can now be interpreted as the customer complaining because the ﬂy might be eating his or her soup. The principles of non-replacement and diminishment are clearly relevant to ethnic or disparagement jokes (e.g., how many professors does it take to screw in a light bulby. none, they get their graduate students to do that) where the punch lines tend to diminish the importance of some characteristic of the referent. For example, the initial include descriptors such as expectation system for professors might ‘intelligent’ and perhaps high in stature, whereas the punch line in the joke above diminishes the importance of those descriptors by eliciting another belief that professors appear lazy.

A third principle relates to the comprehension difﬁculty involved in interpreting a humor stimulus. Wyer and Collins (1992) suggest that humor stimuli elicit the most humor when comprehension difﬁculty is moderate. At low levels of comprehension difﬁculty, the link that must be made between a primary and secondary expectation system requires little effort, and involves a limited element of surprise or novelty. This explains why jokes that are funny to children are not funny to adults, who can easily anticipate the punch line. At moderate levels of comprehension difﬁculty, the audience ‘‘feels more challenged, and their success in comprehending the information is rewarding’’ (Wyer & Collins, 1992, p. 674). However, at high levels of comprehension difﬁculty, the audience might feel foolish, decreasing their enjoyment.

A fourth principle concerns the amount of elaboration involved in comprehending a joke after the two expectation systems are linked. Wyer and Collins (1992) suggest that humor stimuli are perceived to be funnier when the audience can elaborate extensively on various aspects of the humor’s context. The ‘‘ﬂy in my soup’’ joke could be elaborated by imagining the ﬂy in the bowl actually eating the soup, or the angry look on the customer’s face when the waiter tells them not to worry. The Hemingway quote above is also high on elaboration potential, as one can contemplate his various levels of meaning for some time. As another example, the ﬁrst

219

220