---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 89db89d7acfb59b20e871a3b5b828e895602de7b
title: '13'
---
## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

surprisingly, stereotype-based inferences can inﬂuence virtually all HRM processes (e.g., recruitment, selection, training, compensation, and mentoring).

It deserves adding that cognitions about a target Individuating Information. may not always be a sole function of stereotype-based inferences. Individuating information about the target may attenuate the impact of stereotypes on an observers’ cognitions (e.g., Brewer, 1988; Fiske & Neuberg, 1990). Nevertheless, research shows that stereotypes typically play an important role in the inferences that observers generate about targets (Brewer & Miller, 1984; Macrae et al., 1996), especially when the observers (a) have little or no motivation or ability to attend to individuating information or (b) lack the cognitive resources needed to both attend to and process such information (e.g., Bodenhausen, 1993; Macrae et al., 1996). This can take place, for example, when recruiters are faced with the task of having to interview a large number of potential job applicants in a short time period. Note, in addition, that the mere categorization of targets often serves to instigate cognitions and affective responses that are category-based and relatively automatic (e.g., Brewer & Miller, 1984; Dovidio & Gaertner, 1993; Fiske & Ruscher, 1993; Macrae et al., 1996). Moreover, the greater the observer’s stereotypic beliefs, the greater his or her propensity to categorize targets (e.g., Zarate & Smith, 1990). Finally, because stereotypes are highly resistant individuating information is unlikely to change stereotypes.

to change,

Expectations about the Target. Based on both stereotypes and affective responses to the target, the observer generates expectations about the behaviors that he or she is likely to exhibit (e.g., Rosenthal & Jacobson, 1968; Miller & Turnbull, 1986). Generally, these are based on beliefs about the typical member of the category to which the target has been assigned, and may be tied to views about his or her cognitive ability, interpersonal competence, motivation to work, and ﬁt with the organization’s culture. Thus, for example, prior to obtaining information about the actual work performance of an African-American job applicant, an interviewer may infer that he or she has neither the ability nor the motivation to exhibit acceptable job behavior.

It deserves noting that one byproduct of Other Effects of Categorization. categorization is viewing a target as either an ingroup or outgroup member. This leads to a number of important consequences, including viewing outgroup members (a) more negatively than ingroup members, (b) as more
