# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

Humor, Affect, and Performance The relationship between humor and positive affect has received considerable supported in the literature (Cann et al., 1999; Kuiper, McKenzie, & Belanger, 1995; Martin et al., 1993). In fact, humor is frequently used as a positive mood induction in experimental studies (Carnevale & Isen, 1986; Kraiger, Billings, & Isen, 1989). Positive affect has been found to be directly or indirectly related to a number of important individual and organization- level performance variables. For example, Isen and Baron (1991) showed that even a small shift in positive affect can inﬂuence job satisfaction and task perceptions, and can have an effect on prosocial behaviors. In a more recent review, Brief and Weiss (2002) cited substantial evidence showing that affect is associated with various performance-relevant variables such as judgments, negotiation process, helping behaviors, and withdrawal beha- viors. In addition, Seo, Barrett, and Bartunek (2004) argue that affect can inﬂuence performance through its impact on the direction, intensity, and persistence components of motivation.

Although humor might have a measurable impact on positive affect, it is implausible that the level of positive affect caused by isolated jokes or funny comments could have an enduring and meaningful impact on an audience. However, if the use of humor can have a cumulative effect, and if positive affect can persist or build within groups, such an inﬂuence might be possible. One way in which this might occur is through emotional contagion, a social process by which one’s positive or negative affect is ‘‘caught’’ by others and spread throughout one’s group (Hatﬁeld, Cacioppo, & Rapson, 1994). Emotional contagion can occur through an intentional and conscious process called social sharing of emotions (Rime´ , Mesquita, Philippot, & Boca, 1991) and/or through an automatic and unconscious mechanism called primitive emotional contagion (Hatﬁeld et al., 1994). For example, Strazdins (2002) found that explicit discussion of individuals’ emotions initiated emotional contagion processes whereby the moods of audience members converged toward those of the speaker. In addition, Bartel and Saavedra (2000) found that behavioral manifestations of emotion (e.g., facial expressions) were unconsciously mimicked by other group members, eventually resulting in mood convergence. Similarly, Barsade (2002) elicited mood convergence in several laboratory-based groups using a confederate trained to display emotion-laden behaviors. Barsade (2002) also found positive collective mood was associated with cooperation and higher task performance.

However, Seo et al. (2004) write ‘‘little is known about what causes core affective experiences at work and to what degree’’ (p. 435), and indeed, little attention has been paid to although these effects seem robust,