---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a30b96cb4f89f10fa2614f616230c82e2eb7024e
title: '13'
---
## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

cross-sectional research can be used to address questions related to the effects of time. It is important to understand where cross-sectional research can and cannot help explain the effects on performance associated with time. Second, recent advances in analytical methods are providing new means to analyze longitudinal data. These methods open up a wide range of possibilities for examining job performance as it relates to time, with each method possessing different assumptions, advantages, and weaknesses. Third, the very nature of studying job performance over time gives rise to a variety of methodological problems that will confront all research on the topic. These issues cause any longitudinal analysis of performance ratings to be at least somewhat ﬂawed, and so it is important to understand the implications of these necessary data limitations. To advance our knowledge about dynamic performance, it is important to have a good understanding of the methodological issues facing those who study the effects associated with time on job performance.

The purpose of this article is to review the current state of knowledge about dynamic performance, discuss the relevant analytical methods and issues, and provide some structure to emerging research in this area. The alignment of past work, past theories, new theories, and methodological advances provides an exciting opportunity for research of both applied and theoretical value. It is my hope that not only will this review clarify the current state of knowledge regarding job performance considered within the context of time, but also will inspire more research on the phenomenon.
