---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 85cb002e31736d046622ec2584b9abb0227d4971
title: '13'
---
# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

author recently ordered a birthday cake from a local bakery for his father- in-law, and asked that it read ‘‘Happy Birthday Bernie’’ on the top (quite original). However, when the cake was picked up, it read ‘‘Happy Burney Murney.’’ This incident is so funny because it stimulates so many different elaborations: How could someone make such a bad mistake without catching it? What would the recipient’s reaction be if presented with such a cake? Who the hell is Murney? etc. In contrast, simple jokes (e.g., knock-knock jokes) or puns are usually not very funny (especially a second or third time) because they have very little elaboration potential. This principle is very similar to Davis’ (1993) observation that the degree to which humor is found to be funny tends to be proportional to the degree to which an incongruity clashes with a system’s core characteristics. ‘‘Bad’’ jokes or silly humor targets the periphery of one’s expectation systems, while humor that gets the biggest responses targets core values, beliefs, or institutions.

‘‘If you work on a lobster boat, sneaking up behind someone and pinching him is probably a joke that gets old real fast.’’ (Jack Handey, Deep Thoughts)

A ﬁnal principle concerns the motivations of the audience with respect to how they interpret a humorous stimulus, or their information-processing goals. A basic distinction can be made between information-processing goals or motivations to interpret the stimulus as humorous, and more speciﬁc information-processing goals. The latter might include a goal of simply understanding the content of the message, attempting to interpret unspoken meaning, or determining whether the humor producer is assaulting an important belief system. Davis (1993), for example, notes that when people are deeply committed to a belief system (e.g., regarding abortion), or when there are normative prohibitions against disparaging certain people or things (e.g., criticizing Chinese leader Mao during the 1960s), attempts at humor that create incongruities within those systems will be unsuccessful and/or met with anger. In contrast, when one has a goal of ﬁnding the humor in a stimulus, this might be similar to a play frame discussed by various authors (e.g., Caron, 2002). A play frame indicates one’s receptiveness to humor, and might be induced by learned associations between particular contexts and laughter (e.g., going to a movie or comedy club, seeing a friend who is typically amusing), or by certain cultural signals for establishing play frames (e.g., setting up a joke with an introduction such as ‘‘Did you hear the one abouty.’’). If an individual is not motivated to process information involved in a humorous stimulus in terms of a ‘‘play
