---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6d7d291d465ba53835406d9595f20eeb023ddacc
title: '13'
---
# Stigmas

In his seminal work on the management of spoiled identity, Goffman (1963) deﬁned a stigma as a real or perceived deeply discrediting discrepancy between a person’s virtual and actual social identities. A person’s virtual social identity (VSI) represents what is expected of him or her in terms of such attributes as abilities, personality, physical appearance, values, attitudes, behavioral proclivities, and behaviors in a social system (e.g., an organization). It reﬂects what a person should be in a system, it represents the ideal. Thus, for example, in organizations, selection systems are designed to maximize the degree to which job applicants have attributes that are consistent with the given VSI. It typically varies as a function of the job for which an individual is recruited and selected. In addition, the VSI of an individual comes into play in such processes as performance manage- ment, worker compensation, and employee mentoring.

In contrast, to a VSI, an actual social identity (ASI) reﬂects the way the individual (i.e., target) is actually perceived (or is capable of being perceived) by an observer. As noted below, among the important consequences of an individual’s ASI are the inﬂuences it has on observers’ cognitions and emotions. A person is said to be stigmatized (Goffman, 1963; Heatherton et al., 2003) or marked (Jones et al., 1984) when their ASI is negatively discrepant from their VSI. Stigmas or marks serve as the basis for targets (e.g., job applicants, job incumbents) being discredited by observers (e.g., organiza- tional supervisors, peers, and subordinates).

Although there are many speciﬁc types of stigmas, Goffman (1963) i.e., tribal

viewed them as falling into one of three general categories,

i.e.,

123

124
