## Toward a Theory of Reputation in Organizations

established, how a leader’s reputation affects an organization is only just beginning (i.e., Hayward et al., 2004; Ferris et al., in press-c; Ranft et al., 2006; Wade et al., 2006). The interaction between an individual’s reputation and his or her unit’s reputation should be explored.

Furthermore, reputation should be explored as it relates to formal position. The power variable included in Fig. 1 only addresses one aspect, that being formal power. We suggest that there is an interaction between reputation and position, in that reputation may assist in the formation of prestige. Prestige, often deﬁned as a reputation arising from success (Shenkar & Yuchtman-Yaar, 1997), is dependent on the position held by an individual. Indeed, for a time, position alone may grant an individual prestige (e.g., the President of the United States). By the same token, some positions, regardless of the reputation an individual may hold, will never be considered prestigious (e.g., sanitation worker). Because most positions fall somewhere in between, reputation may interact with the formal position to create prestige. Being ‘‘the best’’ in most ﬁelds can be considered prestigious. Finally, research needs to explore the consequences of reputation, such as job performance, promotions and mobility, compensation, and career success. Theory and research has suggested that promotions and mobility decisions are made in tournament competitions, based on early signals of potential (e.g., Cooper et al., 1993). Perhaps future research will ﬁnd that such signals of potential driving these decisions are reﬂective of the reputations developed early for these upwardly mobile individuals.

In discussing the career as tournament metaphor, Cooper et al. (1993) discussed the importance of the integration–differentiation balance in individuals’ effectiveness in tournament competition. Integration involves conformity, ﬁtting in, and so forth, and differentiation refers to standing out and being distinctive. How individuals develop reputations that allow them to stand out and be distinctive, as is the basis of our model, and at the same time still appear to ﬁt with the norms can be a delicate balance to achieve, with potentially high stakes.

Future research in reputation should explore the effects of different reputations as they affect job and career outcomes in short, medium, and long-range time frames; research designs will be important. Also, in examination of long-term outcomes, we need to examine how people develop and maintain reputations through conscious and calculated strategies of inﬂuence that are designed or become emergent over a long period of time, and how the choice of reputation enhancement tactics/strategies might change at different points in the evolution of one’s reputation.

thus,