## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

(and therefore newer people have entered the population who have higher levels of the abilities), that higher performers (or at least those with higher levels of abilities) were more likely to leave the organization, that abilities under consideration were not static as has been assumed, or some combination of these explanations. It is simply not possible to determine the cause of these correlations or to know the consequences of them in a cross-sectional study. Nonetheless, their ﬁndings do have value when considering the validity of stage models.

In all, both Ackerman’s and Murphy’s models are valuable in that they provide a theory for understanding why performance changes with time, and how the relationship between predictors and performance should change over this time. Although it has not received much direct explicit attention, Murphy’s approach to differentiating task performance from individual job performance is a critical theoretical advance for understanding individual job performance. The contradictory predictions of Ackerman and Murphy, and the contrary ﬁndings of Keil and Cortina (2001) and Farrell and McDaniel (2001) demonstrate that more work in this area is needed. Even if not building upon Murphy’s contribution, other work considering Ackerman’s model of task performance needs to be speciﬁcally adapted to understanding the construct of job performance. Murphy’s work is a good demonstration of this, but the model is far from resolved.