# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

Such an effect of humor has been proposed by others (e.g., Tamblyn, 2003), but remains largely untested in training contexts. Basic research could explore the possibility that humor enhances neural activation that aids in the process of information encoding, or in subsequent retrieval. Research with a more applied focus could use humor as an independent variable, and explore its effects on training effectiveness by examining various criteria such as attention during training, skill or knowledge demons- tration immediately after training, and other long term learning or performance criteria (Konradt, Filip, & Hoffmann, 2003). Certainly the proposed positive effects of humor on training effectiveness must involve a number of subtleties that could be explored by research. For instance, is there some threshold of activation that must be surpassed to get humor effects on information processing? Can there be too much humor- induced activation, such that it actually interferes with the encoding process? Differences in cultural norms regarding the appropriate contexts for humor use moderate the impact of humor and thus the degree to which humor can enhance learning (see Zhang, 2005, for an examination of humor, power distance, and communication apprehension in Chinese college classrooms).

Finally, researchers might explore humor’s impact on training by exploring humor’s emotional mechanisms. Speciﬁcally, given the relation- ship between humor and positive affect, a likely scenario is that humor might inﬂuence training success as a result of its inﬂuence on positive affect. For example, effects of positive affect on information processing might be similar to the cognitive effects of humor. Isen’s (1999) review of the literature suggests that even mild positive affect has a positive effect on learning, memory, problem solving, and ﬂexibility in thinking. Humor also appears to decrease state anxiety (Ford et al., 2004), which might result in greater receptivity to new ideas or information. And ﬁnally, humor might enhance training effectiveness through its impact on positive affect, because positive affect makes people more persuadable (Cooper, 2005).

Again, although the fundamental mechanisms by which humor might impact training through its impact on emotions appear to be fairly well- supported, a number of important issues of scope and boundaries might be resolved through systematic research. For example, how much positive affect is too much? Is it possible to be ‘‘too happy’’ for training, and might that depend on the type of training involved? For example, positive affect might increase persuadability because it increases peripheral processing. In some cases, this might be desirable (e.g., sexual harassment training), but in training contexts where deeper processing is desirable (e.g., processing of