---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a818d6c7b296f4f632f3245da5afdc0587c5b787
title: '13'
---
## Contextual Explanations for the Curvilinear Effects of Diversity

Curvilinear effects are viewed as a manifestation of contextual inﬂuences particularly in instances where the level of independent variable depends on the nature of the context (Johns, 1991, 2006; Rousseau & Fried, 2001). From this standpoint, our arguments in the preceding sections cumulatively suggest that curvilinear effects are germane to diversity research because the level of diversity within the team is a function of the organizational and occupational context discussed earlier. However, even within speciﬁc omnibus and discrete contexts, some aspects of diversity may have U-shaped effects on process or performance outcomes. As discussed earlier, Frink et al. (2003) observed that an inverted curvilinear relationship between percentage of women in the ﬁrm and ﬁrm performance was only observable in industries that had lower levels of gender segregation. Organizational demography may exert a similar inﬂuence so that in particular organizational contexts, for example, demographically segregated settings, moderately diverse teams may be most likely to experience negative effects in comparison with homogeneous or extremely diverse teams. Team tenure may also trigger curvilinear effects. Based on the logic that highly tenured teams are less likely to display the effects of team diversity, curvilinear diversity effects are more likely in teams that are less tenured. Understanding the curvilinearity of diversity effects greatly enhances the complexity of diversity research. Acknowledging the boundary conditions shaping the nature of this curvilinearity may be a fruitful course of action for the future.

39

40
