## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

humorous if it is followed by laughter or smiling behaviors, or positive affect. Some authors focus only on humor that is intentionally produced by individuals (e.g., Cooper, 2005), while others note that humorous stimuli can be non-social and unintentional (e.g., Wyer & Collins, 1992).

In this article, we follow Lynch’s (2002) observation that ‘‘humor is fundamentally a communicative activity’’ (p. 423) and deﬁne humor as an intentional form of social communication delivered by a ‘‘producer’’ toward an ‘‘audience.’’ While unintentional humor and humor created in non-social environments might be theoretically interesting in some contexts (e.g., why do we laugh when we notice that a cloud looks like a penis?), individuals within organizations must actively (intentionally) engage in social commu- nication that directly or indirectly helps to accomplish tasks and the goals of the organization. Therefore, humor’s role in shaping, facilitating, or undermining communication between individuals in organizational contexts is the primary focus of this paper.

Importantly, this deﬁnition of humor does not limit humor phenomena to verbal behavior, as humorous non-verbal behaviors (e.g., gestures) or stimuli (e.g., cartoons) can be produced that are intended to communicate some kind of message. In addition, we do not require that the humorous communication is found to be humorous by members of the audience (as indicated by behaviors such as laughter or smiling). One reason for this is that even if a member of the audience to a humorous communication experiences a cognitive reaction and subsequent positive affect in res- ponse (which we describe later), laughter and smiling are only two of a number of possible behavioral responses to humor (Hay, 2001). In addition, we are also interested in attempts at humor that fail to induce desired responses in the audience, because such attempts might still be informa- tive about induce important responses in the audience to the failed humor. Indeed, a joke made at the expense of one group is not likely to be considered funny by members of that group, although it might be hilarious to others. Similarly, ingratiatory humor (Cooper, 2005) used as a form of persuasion might be perceived very negatively by an employee who is passed over for a promotion that is received by the ingratiator. Finally, as we note in the section below on motivational mechanisms, individuals might use communications that employ humorous forms for reasons other than to cause pleasant experiences of mirth in the audience. Therefore, we only require that the humor producer uses a communication style that includes elements of humor (e.g., incongruity – to be described in more detail later).