## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

Third, a fundamental problem with the premise of the Learning Curve Theory, particularly in light of the SHRM literature, is that the theory seems to imply that managers can simply sit back and await guaranteed productivity gains (Teplitz, 1991). This is inconsistent with the fundamental premise of the SHRM literature, which is based on the idea that HR programs can inﬂuence organizational performance through effects on individuals within the organization (Wright & Boswell, 2002). It is also inconsistent with the notable different ‘‘learning rates’’ found in many applications of Learning Curve Theory (Adler & Clark, 1991). Therefore, just as Learning Curve Theory can be of value to the dynamic performance literature, the theory itself can incorporate the potential effects of human resource interventions (e.g., Adler & Clark, 1991) which can then affect organizational performance. In other words, the methods behind the functional form must be capable of representing organizational-level effects on the individual-level phenomenon (i.e., job performance) being modeled.

In sum, Learning Curve Theory has potential applicability to modeling performance over time. The success of the theory in the operations literature suggests it has merit, but its applicability to helping understand behaviorally based performance measures needs explicit testing. Before such testing can occur, though, the functional forms must be adapted to this sort of measure, identifying the necessary parameters, and developing the model to be tested. The primary beneﬁt of applying Learning Curve Theory to the dynamic performance literature is that it provides a theory and related methodology for explicitly modeling the shape of individual job performance over time. Speciﬁc functional forms can be hypothesized and tested. With a theoretical basis for predicting the shape of individual job performance, research could then focus more attention on the factors inﬂuencing this shape. Currently, research on dynamic performance is ad hoc in terms of specifying its functional form. Some studies consider linear effects, others quadratic, and others cubic. Little rationale is given for any form, and there is certainly no consensus regarding which functional form is most appropriate. Learning Curve Theory provides the opportunity to develop theory regarding the nature of this functional form.