# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

the audience might barely register that something serious just happened. Indeed, Dwyer (1991) goes so far as to say ‘‘most of us just go on joking and laughing unaware of the historical, cultural, or power signiﬁcations of what we do’’ (p. 18).

The second goal of the paper was to provide those who are interested in conducting research on humor in organizations with some useful guidance, and with a ‘‘higher grade of manure’’ in which to plant research ideas. To do this, we reviewed humor literature from psychology (including neuroscience), sociology, communications, and anthropology, as well as selected research that bears on humor processes less directly. The ﬁrst part of our review focused on the descriptions of the theoretical basis underlying humor’s effects in social interactions. Speciﬁcally, we explored the motivational basis behind why people use humor, as well as the cognitive and emotional mechanisms that underlie how people appreciate humor. Importantly, our review suggests that we know quite a lot about these mechanisms, particularly on the appreciation side where physiological evidence has conﬁrmed the basic principles underlying incongruity theory and a link between humor appreciation and positive emotions. This fundamental understanding of the humor process is crucial as a launching point for serious research on humor in organizational contexts.

The second part of the review focused on describing the weight of current evidence for humor’s effects on organizationally relevant outcomes. This review was designed to impose some organization on ﬁndings from a range of disciplines, and to provide researchers with a sense of which roads have been well-traveled, and which are still left unexplored. We concluded that the empirical evidence for relationships between humor and creativity, cohesiveness, and other performance-related outcomes is moderate at best, particularly with regard to any inference of causality. However, given that the theoretical basis for these relationships appears fairly sound, this conclusion should be viewed as a terriﬁc opportunity for researchers, rather than a disappointment.

The ﬁnal goal of this paper was to take a step into very new territory, by examining the potential inﬂuence of culture on humor use and outcomes in organizations. To do this, we drew on theory and research from the literature on cross-cultural psychology to develop speciﬁc and testable hypotheses. We hope the ideas outlined in the section on culture and humor stimulate interest in what we believe to be the most promising research opportunities addressed in this paper. Certainly, if one is interested in the role of humor in organizational contexts, it seems that the inclusion of culture as an important contextual variable would make the research more