---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 595ecfe6089f3ef47d0f321c7f4756e2a6b836cf
title: '13'
---
## motivation. Academy of Management, 29, 423–439.

Shammi, P., & Stuss, D. T. (1999). Humor appreciation: A role of the right frontal lobe. Brain,

122, 657–666.

Shane, S., Venkataraman, S., & MacMillan, I. (1995). Cultural differences in innovation

championing strategies. Journal of Management, 21, 931–952.

Shultz, T. R. (1976). A cross-cultural study of the structure of humor. In: A. J. Chapman & H.C. Foot (Eds), It’s a funny thing, humor (pp. 175–179). New York: Pergamon Press. Singelis, T. M., Triandis, H. C., Bhawuk, D., & Gelfand, M. J. (1995). Horizontal and vertical dimensions of individualism and collectivism: A theoretical and measurement reﬁne- ment. Cross-Cultural Research: The Journal of Comparative Social Science, 29, 240–275. Smith, P. B., Dugan, S., & Trompenaars, F. (1996). National culture and the values of organizational employees: A dimensional analysis across 43 nations. Journal of Cross- Cultural Psychology, 27, 231–264.

Smith, E. E., & White, H. L. (1965). Wit, creativity, and sarcasm. Journal of Applied

Psychology, 49, 131–134.

Stephenson, R. M. (1951). Conﬂict and control functions of humor. American Journal of

Sociology, 56, 569–574.

Strazdins, L. (2002). Emotional work and emotional contagion. In: N. M. Ashkanasy, W. J. Zerbe & C. E. J. Ha¨ rtel (Eds), Managing emotions in the workplace (pp. 232–249). New York: M. E. Sharpe Inc.

Suls, J. M. (1972). A two-stage model for the appreciation of jokes and cartoons: An information-processing analysis. In: J. H. Goldstein & P. E. McGhee (Eds), The psychology of humor (pp. 81–100). New York: Academic Press.

Suls, J. M. (1976). Cognitive and disparagement theories of humor: A theoretical and empirical synthesis. In: A. J. Chapman & H. C. Foot (Eds), It’s a funny thing, humor (pp. 41–45). New York: Pergamon Press.

Susa, A. M. (2002). Humor type, organizational climate, and outcomes: The shortest distance between an organization’s environment and the bottom line is laughter. Unpublished doctoral dissertation, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, NB.

Svebak, S. (1996). The development of the sense of humor questionnaire: From SHQ to SHQ-6.

Humor, 9, 341–362.

Sykes, A. J. M. (1966). Joking relationships in an industrial setting. American Anthropologist,

68, 188–193.

Tajfel, H., & Turner, J. C. (1986). The social identity theory of intergroup behavior. In: S. Worchel & W. G. Austin (Eds), Psychology of intergroup relations. Chicago, IL: Nelson-Hall.

Tamblyn, D. (2003). Laugh and learn: 95 ways to use humor for more effective teaching and
