## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

distance might suggest two important caveats to this fundamental relation- ship. First, as we noted above, high power distance might be associated with less use of humor, particularly between employees from different the frequency of humor use in social hierarchical communications might be decreased in high power distance environments, which would presumably reduce mental ﬂexibility and increase anxiety relative to an environment in which humor ﬂows freely.

levels. As such,

Second, even if individuals at a given hierarchical level utilize humor considerably, and this facilitates cognitive processes consistent with the generation of creative or innovative ideas, high power distance might inhibit ideas from ever being put forth at the group level, or presented to superiors. This notion was supported by Van der Vegt, van de Vliert, and Huang (2005) who found that in high power distance societies, diversity in status-relevant characteristics (i.e., functional background and tenure) within a group were inversely related with a climate of innovation. They hypothesized that in high power distance societies, the presence of high status individuals tends to inhibit low status members from voicing creative ideas, or disagreeing with ideas posed by high status members. Conversely, in low power distance societies, diversity in terms of these characteristics was positively associated with innovative climate. In other words, although humor might be related to level, social processes the generation of creative ideas at an individual associated with power distance might keep those ideas from ever being offered.

Shane, Venkataraman, and MacMillan (1995) also found that it in high power distance societies people believe it is important that those who champion innovations should seek the support and acceptance of people in authority, rather than building broad consensus. If those in power are accepting of innovative ideas coming from subordinates, this would not be a problem. However, because power distance is associated with bureaucratic and hierarchical structures and highly centralized decision making, creative ideas and innovations might be less likely to be given a fair hearing and accepted by those in authority. This is consistent with Anderson, De Dreu, and Nijstad’s (2004) contention that ‘‘innovation unavoidably involves challenging the status quo at some level of analysis and at some point in the process’’ (p. 160), and suggests that putting forward innovative or creative ideas might be a risky endeavor. As a consequence, perhaps through learned helplessness, even if they might otherwise be stimulated creatively by humor, employees might never develop habits of brainstorming creative ideas, or ‘‘thinking outside the box’’ because of the difﬁculty in getting one’s ideas heard. Indeed, taking the initiative to develop and champion innovative

247

248