---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 05704ac26b20bb9f09d71ade24ae27a93fe9a005
title: '13'
---
# Construct Domain Differentiation

Although we conceive of reputation as a separate and distinct construct in its own right, it is important to brieﬂy discuss its construct domain delineation as compared with other constructs potentially construed as similar in nature. Rindova, Pollock, and Hayward (2006) distinguished among the constructs of reputation, legitimacy, status, and celebrity. Suggesting that reputation differs from the others in that it reﬂects a predictive measure, similar to what marketing scholars have proposed, Rindova et al. implied that both status and legitimacy are based more on networks and abidance with acceptable norms. They contended that both celebrity and reputation are based on others’ perception of an individual (or group). Rindova et al. deﬁned celebrity as those entities that ‘‘attract a high level of public attention and generate positive emotional responses from stakeholder audiences’’ (p. 51), and recent research has been conducted on both celebrity ﬁrms (Rindova et al., 2006) and celebrity Chief Executive Ofﬁcers (CEOs) (Hayward, Rindova, & Pollock, 2004; Ranft, Zinko, Ferris, & Buckley, 2006; Wade, Porac, Pollock, & Grafﬁn, 2006).

165

166

ROBERT ZINKO ET AL.

The model presented in this paper reﬂects the perspective set out by Rindova et al. (2006) by suggesting that reputation differs from fame and celebrity because it has a predictive nature. Moreover, Rindova et al. proposed that although other deﬁning characteristics, such as status and legitimacy, may carry with them a predictive value, they are normally tied directly to a formal position in an organization; suggesting that status and legitimacy may be achieved by position alone because others will consider them more on station or network rather than on observable actions. Ironically, one can gain a reputation for being anything but legitimate when compared with expected norms (Haviland, 1977).

Ravlin and Thomas (2005, p. 968) characterized status as ‘‘differences in prestige and deference’’ that result in some sort of ranking, and de Botton (2004, p. vii) deﬁned status as ‘‘one’s value and importance in the eyes of the world’’. Roberts (2005) suggested that image is based on our own assessment of ourselves, rather than an audience’s perception of us, which implies that individuals’ reputations may be completely different from their images. Furthermore, individuals who are low in social astuteness may perceive their image as being the same as their reputation, rendering them completely erroneous in their assessment, as a function of their ‘‘ﬂawed self- assessments,’’ which can be due to an inability to understand other’s perceptions of them (Dunning, Heath, & Suls, 2004).

Because it has been studied in so many different intellectual traditions and disciplinary perspectives, it is difﬁcult to provide a single deﬁnition of identity. However, most would simply contend that identity refers to ‘‘... an internal cognition about the self,’’ or perhaps a bit more speciﬁcally, ‘‘... a feature of the individual reﬂecting an internal process of self-deﬁnition’’ (Deaux, 2000, p. 225). Thus, although identity might appear to be similar in nature to reputation, important differences exist concerning the predominant inward looking construct of identity, and the external reﬂection of reputation. The explanation of reputation presented in this paper acknowledges not only the similarities of such constructs as image, fame, status, legitimacy, identity, and prestige, but also builds upon the revealed differences presented by past authors in order to present a more clearly delineated reputation construct.
