## Moderators of the Reputation–Outcomes Relationships

In addition to the investigation of the direct effects of personal reputation on work outcomes, research should consider the potential moderating effects of reputation. Inﬂuence tactics and strategies that individuals employ should reﬂect their intended reputation. Both Donald Trump (i.e., The Apprentice) and Simon Cowell (i.e., American Idol ) have established reputations as bullies. The inﬂuence tactics employed by both men are consistent with their reputations (i.e., harsh and direct), which all contribute to the desired ‘‘bully’’ image they worked at constructing, because it serves their purposes (Ferris, Zinko, Brouer, Buckley, & Harvey, in press-c).

In support, Tedeschi and Melburg (1984) argued that the selection and effectiveness of inﬂuence tactics by individuals will differ as a function of their reputations, and research has demonstrated initial support for such interactions when testing these notions in the laboratory, where reputation was manipulated (Rosen et al., 1990), and in the ﬁeld, where positive

191

192

ROBERT ZINKO ET AL.

reputation facilitated the favorable effects of political behavior on job performance and affective work outcomes (Hochwarter, Ferris, Zinko, Arnell, & James, 2007).

Implicit Model Assumptions Although not included in Fig. 1, for purposes of clarity and ease of reading, the proposed conceptualization of reputation includes three feedback loops that have important meaning, which is consistent with the temporal nature of reputation noted above. One loop extends from Reputation back to Human Capital, and this suggests that as one cycles through this reputation- building process over time, ‘‘reputational capital’’ accrues, which is an indication of the relative value associated with a reputation (Fombrun, 1996). In essence, then, reputation (and the capital it accrues) becomes an important part of individuals’ personal asset portfolio, and therefore, it becomes part of their human capital.

Another feedback loop extends back from Reputation to Deviation from Behavioral Norms, and this is included because as individuals build reputations, the very deﬁnition of what constitutes a deviation from conventional norms of behavior changes. Essentially, as reputations build, trust in the individual increases (e.g., Whitmeyer, 2000), there is less perceived need to monitor the individual’s behavior (Wernerfelt, 1988), and such individuals are granted more ‘‘idiosyncrasy credits’’ (Hollander, 1958), and thus more latitude to deviate from norms for behavior, and incur greater discretion and autonomy (e.g., Ferris et al., 2003; Knoke, 1983).

Therefore, the very nature of what constitutes a deviation from behavioral norms becomes redeﬁned for people with greater reputations. The third feedback loop extends from Reputation back to Social Capital, and indicates that as reputations grow, so do the alliances, coalitions, networks, the and social capital one accrues. So, development of reputations, and also is affected by reputation development over time.