## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

employees is taken during any point of their development. Cross-sectional research, when using interactions with temporal variables or samples divided into cohorts by some temporal variable, can be of use when considering the implications of such models. While clearly not ideal for studying longitudinal phenomena and its limitations must be explicitly recognized, the information provided in cross-sectional research should not be dismissed or ignored. Furthermore, any study that examines job experience, job tenure, organizational tenure, or age is already implicitly involving the modeling of effects that are associated with time. Research on performance, even if intended to be static and using cross-sectional data, needs at least to recognize where the literature on dynamic performance may be relevant to their proposed models, and perhaps may even necessitate that variables of interest be interacted with temporal variables to provide at least some test of the stability of the beta-coefﬁcient of interest.

Longitudinal Designs For studying job performance over time, longitudinal designs have obvious beneﬁts. With longitudinal data, one can look at both within-person and across-person differences. This allows the examination of how performance changes, how individual characteristics change, and how the effects of individual characteristics on performance change. With these beneﬁts, though, come both practical and methodological problems.

The most practical problems are associated with data collection, but it is more than a convenience problem. Difﬁculties of longitudinal research in general are compounded by the speciﬁc needs of research on dynamic performance. First, the collection of data from multiple time periods already can be practically difﬁcult, but for modeling within-person relationships this difﬁculty is compounded because more than two waves of data are highly preferable. As discussed earlier, we know job performance trends are non- linear, and that controlling for simply the last instance of job performance will yield an underspeciﬁed model. Given the evidence (so far) that job performance actually follows (at least) a cubic form (e.g., Hofmann et al., 1992, 1993; Keil & Cortina, 2001; Ployhart & Hakel, 1998), this means that a highly speciﬁed model requires data from at least four waves, and more would be preferable to test this assumption (although applications of Learning Curve Theory could provide a model with a different speciﬁcation). Second, dynamic performance research has frequently used sales as a measure of performance. This is convenient because the data is often available on a monthly basis, thereby making the data demands of dynamic performance research more easily satisﬁed; however, this is counter to most

79

80