# Distal Omnibus Context

Industry/Occupation A signiﬁcant body of sociological research on the demographics of occupations and industry shows that industry or occupation level demo- graphics can have important implications for gender and ethnicity or race- based diversity in organizations (for a review see Reskin, McBrier, & Kmec, 1999). Prior research in this area has shown that occupational demography can inﬂuence earning and rewards. For example, the degree to which occupations are female-dominated is predictive of occupational wage levels; as the degree of female representation increases, averages wages decrease for both men and women in the occupation (O’Neill, 2003; Pfeffer & Davis- Blake, 1987). This ‘‘feminization’’ effect persists even when human capital requirements of different occupations and jobs are taken into account (Elvira & Graham, 2002). In other words, it appears as if feminization of occupations results in the occupations themselves being devalued (Blau, 1977). Ostroff and Atwater (2003) found that increasing proportions of female peers, sub- ordinates, and managers had negative effects on managerial compensation. Elvira and Graham (2002) also found that the negative effects of feminization were evident in both base pay and contingent pay. Research on occupational demography typically focuses on gender rather than ethnicity, in part because racial typing of occupations is less prevalent than occupational feminization (Tomaskovic-Devey, 1993). Nevertheless, the dynamics of feminization may be generalizable to other demographic attributes as well and may inﬂuence interactional processes within work groups (Skaggs & DiTomaso, 2004).

A recent study by Frink et al. (2003) highlights the importance of acknowledging industry level gender segregation on the outcomes of

7

8