# the impact of

leader humor on intentions to quit and including

Two studies also examined the relationship between humor use and leadership quality. In a military context, Priest and Swain (2002) found that good leaders were rated higher in the use of humor. In a more extensive investigation of humor and leadership style, Avolio et al. (1999) found that transformational and contingent leadership styles were associated with greater humor use, but the laissez-faire style was negatively associated with humor use. In addition, Avolio et al. (1999) found that humor use as rated by subordinates was related to the manager’s performance as rated by the manager’s supervisor.

These studies seem to imply that a leader’s use of humor might have both motivational and emotional components. On the motivational side, leaders might use humor to afﬁliate with their subordinates in order to increase group cohesiveness and build trust. Certainly, research exploring contextual or individual difference variables that inﬂuence motivations to use humor would help us understand how and why humor is initiated. On the emotional side, leaders’ use of humor is associated with an affective inﬂuence on subordinates, which is associated with higher job satisfaction and other job attitudes (e.g., commitment) and attitude-related cognitions (e.g., turnover intentions). Judge and Ilies (2002) studied the affective component of job satisfaction, and showed that momentary moods (such as that which might be inﬂuenced by humor) are strong predictors of concurrent job satisfaction. In addition, a recent meta-analysis of 312 studies (Judge, Thoresen, Bono, & Patton, 2001) estimated that the true correlation between job satisfaction and performance is B.30, which is not inconsequential. So, even though the empirical evidence for the direct link between leader’s use of humor and it is follower’s performance has not been well established in research, plausible that leaders’ use of humor might enhance subordinates’ perfor- mance through higher job satisfaction.