## Toward a Theory of Reputation in Organizations

inﬂuence mechanisms that reveal the ability to control others (Argyle, 1969). Political perspectives on organizations have suggested that in order to be effective in such environments, individuals must be socially astute and skilled interpersonally (e.g., Mintzberg, 1983; Pfeffer, 1981).

Perhaps the most critical type of social effectiveness needed in organiza- tional settings is political skill, which is regarded as an interpersonal style construct that combines interpersonal perceptiveness or social astuteness with the capacity to adjust one’s behavior to different contextual demands in ways that build trust, conﬁdence, and genuineness, and effectively inﬂuence and control the responses of others (Ferris, Davidson, & Perrewe´ , 2005a; Ferris et al., 2005b). People high in political skill not only know precisely what to do in different social situations, but also exactly how to execute behavior with a sincere, engaging manner that disguises any ulterior motives, inspires believability, trust, and conﬁdence, and renders inﬂuence attempts successful.

Recently, scholars have discussed the relationship between personality and social effectiveness. Hogan (1991) and Hogan and Shelton (1998) deﬁned personality as including both an internal ‘identity’ component and an external ‘reputation’ component. According to Hogan, identity refers to how we think about ourselves and how we want others to think about us, and it serves to guide our behavior in social interactions. Reputation is viewed as the outside perspective on personality, and it refers to how others think about and evaluate our efforts to achieve our goals and be successful. In essence, identity is reﬂective of individuals’ potential, and reputation is indicative of how successful they are at realizing their potential.

Hogan (1991) and Hogan and Shelton (1998) argued for an intricate relationship between personality and social effectiveness, suggesting that social effectiveness identity into successful goal translates accomplishment or reputation. Block and Kremen (1996) also addressed the relationship between social effectiveness and personality, suggesting that social effectiveness essentially maintains the personality system within tenable bounds, and allows for acceptable adaptation.

is what

Mayer (2005) proposed a ‘‘systems framework’’ of personality, which focuses on the complete psychological functioning of the individual, and he organized personality into four major subsystems: Energy Lattice, Knowl- edge Works, Social Actor, and Conscious Executive. The Social Actor subsystem is most relevant for our purposes here, and Mayer (2005, p. 299) argued that it ‘‘represents the expression of personality in a socially adaptive fashion. It includes social skills, role knowledge, and emotionally preferred expressions.’’

179

180

ROBERT ZINKO ET AL.

Such views suggest the important connection between personality and social effectiveness, whereby personality brings to life, and external observation, the internal dynamics of one’s personality characteristics. Ferris et al. (in press-b) proposed a conceptualization of the characteristic themes reﬂected by certain personality or dispositional constructs, and how they serve as antecedents or predictors of political skill.

Therefore, we envision personality as more distal constructs that shape and predict features of social effectiveness (e.g., political skill), which in turn are more proximal antecedents of reputation. Liu, Ferris, Zinko, Perrewe´ , Weitz, and Xu (in press) recently provided empirical support for these linkages. We suggest that political skill is a critical component in personal reputation development because it enables workers to more effectively navigate political environments and inﬂuence others in the work setting by conveying the proper image (Ferris et al., 2005a). As one’s responsibilities increase, particularly in managing and leading others, political skill may be the one factor that best enables individuals to rise to lofty heights in their careers. To the degree that navigating organizational politics and inﬂuencing others are critical factors in managerial success, political skill will help individuals build reputations for savvy and leadership inﬂuence that is so valued in organizations today (Ferris et al., in press-b; Ferris et al., 2005b; Ferris et al., 2005a).

Self-Regulation of Behavior As individuals assess their positions in organizations, they often feel a desire to alter their status. To do this, they must convince those around them of their new reputation. Once individuals ﬁnd appropriate referents who are receiving the rewards or status to which they aspire, such individuals must identify and demonstrate those similar behaviors that should produce similar rewards. These behaviors must be considered in the context of the norms of the organization. The (other) referent chosen may be outside the organization (Oldham et al., 1986), so reputation-building individuals may need to adapt their behavior to the norms and referent system of the current environment. The regulation of behaviors must be done with an awareness of the referent system, as well as consideration of the audience’s response (Gotsi & Wilson, 2001). As the model suggests, we propose that human capital affects one’s ability to self-regulate behaviors. It does this not only by supplying the necessary cognitive abilities to properly assess the surrounding norms, but also by providing the will power necessary to self regulate one’s actions (Schmidt & Hunter, 1998).

Shearmur and Klein (1997) interpreted Adam Smith’s The Great Society as viewing society as a ‘‘patchwork of reputational nexuses,’’ and as such, it