---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1fdc4a1f690fb25b9d683776b126e95449e90e0b
title: '13'
---
## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

performance for Ackerman’s model, and job performance in general for Murphy’s model). Developments in the understanding of job performance have shown job performance to be multidimensional (Motowidlo et al., 1997; Rotundo & Sackett, 2002; Viswesvaran et al., 2005; Welbourne et al., 1998). When Murphy’s paper was written, the literature on job performance had not yet made this distinction. In his work, Murphy deﬁnes his criterion, job performance, as ‘‘overall job performance’’, taking into account performance on speciﬁc tasks but also ‘‘variables such as success in maintaining good interpersonal relations, absenteeism and withdrawal behaviors, substance abuse, and other behaviors that increase hazards at the workplace’’ (p. 185). As such, his model’s focus on overall job performance is comparable with Rotundo and Sackett’s deﬁnition of overall job performance, and is similarly comprised on job task performance (e.g., ‘‘performance on speciﬁc tasks’’), contextual performance (e.g., ‘‘maintaining good interpersonal relations’’ and ‘‘behaviors that contribute toythe achievement of goals associated with their jobs’’), and counter-productive behaviors (e.g., ‘‘withdrawal behaviors, substance abuse, and other behaviors that increase hazards at the work place’’). It is likely that there are different functional relationships for the predictors of the different dimensions of performance (Steele-Johnson et al., 2000). The current developments in understanding job performance as a multidimensional construct suggest that the stage models can be extended to consider the different dimensions of job performance. The need for future work developing and reﬁning the performance stage models leads to this fourth set of research questions:

(cid:4) How can the differences between the Ackerman and Murphy’s models be

resolved to yield a single dynamic model of job performance?

(cid:4) How can such a resultant stage model of job performance be modiﬁed and

updated to better understand job performance over time?
