## Third Party Interventions across Cultures

uncertainty of what sort of decision might follow in the arbitration phase may lead to greater concession making (Conlon et al., 2002).

Third party procedures that facilitate maximum concession making (reducing the chilling effect) on unresolved issues may be preferable in many cultures, especially those where individual positions are paramount and directly spoken and asserted by disputants. But this criterion is culturally bound, as it assumes the superiority of discovering and integrating individual level interests, and assumes that disputants will present their positions individually and competitively. As we have suggested before, there may not always be an objective to ﬁnd the ‘‘best’’ or ‘‘most integrative’’ solution from an individual disputant perspective, as wider stakeholders interests might take priority. The chilling effect might not be relevant for certain disputes in collectivist cultures, as there may be a hesitation to put individual positions forward, especially if there is the possibility of causing confrontation or the loss of face if a disputant does not reach his or her spoken, public desired outcome. Additionally, there might be limited relevance in hierarchical cultures, for if the parties expect that the third party will ask the questions and make the decisions, perhaps parties do not always come in with a ‘‘position’’ per se nor might they actively choose to make concessions.

The Narcotic Effect One of the best known concerns about arbitration is the ‘‘narcotic effect’’, where disputants may become overly reliant on an arbitrator and not attempt to resolve disputes on their own (cf., Lewicki et al., 1999). In research on this topic, FOA sometimes shows less of a narcotic effect than binding arbitration (see Olson, 1988 for a discussion) and double FOA comparatively less than either of the above (Dickinson, 2004). Generally, we see nothing in mediation or fact ﬁnding that reduces the likelihood of a narcotic effect – the parties are likely to become dependent on the use of these third parties unless the third parties take special steps to train the disputants to resolve their own conﬂicts.

In some cultures, especially those with individualistic and egalitarian values, we expect a preference for procedures that encourage parties to resolve disputes themselves. But, in other cultures, we would expect the third party to be an integral part of any dispute resolution process. For example, in hierarchical cultures, it may not be considered appropriate for disputants to take responsibility to solve their own disputes, and there may be strong norms preventing them from doing so. For especially in cultures where hierarchy is very strong, pushing decisions and control down the chain is not

337

338

DONALD E. CONLON ET AL.

always desirable. It is considered the manager’s job to take control and make the decision so that the disputants don’t have to worry about this.

As well, in collectivist cultures, we might suggest that individuals are not encouraged to solve their own problems, as there may not be a desire for a focus on individual interests. It may be preferable for a respected, knowledgeable third party to ensure the ‘‘right’’ interests were taken into account in the situation (i.e., the broader collective). In fact, in some collectivist and hierarchical cultures (i.e., East Asian cultures), we often ﬁnd that a preferred dispute resolution option is to seek out a higher status third party to assist in conﬂicts that may arise between subordinates (Brett, 2001; Tse, Francis, & Walls, 1994). Thus, the narcotic effect is likely to be even stronger in such cultural contexts.

Proposition 9. Disputes occurring in egalitarian and individualistic cultures will be more susceptible to a chilling effect, resulting in a greater proportion of disputes being appropriate for the use of FOA (and related procedures), as compared with disputes in hierarchical and collectivist cultures.

Proposition 10. Recurring negotiations that occur in egalitarian and individualistic cultures are less likely to exhibit the narcotic effect than are recurring negotiations that occur in hierarchical or collectivist cultures. Moreover, the presence of a narcotic effect will be perceived as less favorable among egalitarian and individualistic cultures than among hierarchical and collectivist cultures.