data/clean/13__chunk0856.md, before:

# HUMOR AND CULTURE

‘‘A difference of taste in jokes is a great strain on the affections.’’ (George Eliot)

In Albert Brooks’ recent ﬁlm ‘‘Looking for Comedy in the Muslim World,’’ there’s a scene in which Brooks is standing in front of a large audience in a theater in India. He tells a joke that is greeted with absolute silence. After a moment, he says to the crowd ‘‘If you speak English, would you raise your hand?’’ Of course all 500 or so people raise their hands, to which Brooks says under his breath ‘‘Oh God.’’ Certainly, the sense of utter embarrassment and extreme awkwardness arising from this failure to communicate is a feeling that most people who have interacted with people from different cultures have undoubtedly experienced in relation to humor, if on a smaller scale. Indeed, such experiences have led some people who consult about cross-cultural communication to conclude that humor is a topic that is best avoided when communicating with someone from a different culture. But, given humor’s ability to enhance the effectiveness of communications, and its ubiquity across people and contexts, we believe a better strategy might be to understand humor and its relationship with culture better through systematic research. The preceding sections on humor theory and humor’s effects in organizations provide the backdrop for the

233

234

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/13__chunk0856.md, after:

---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f265a4f1462a2b33db032468903421cfae25be4b
title: '13'
---
## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

Ziv (1988), Koestler (1964), and others have hypothesized that the key cognitive aspect of humor, incongruity and its resolution, is very similar to the cognitive processes required for creativity. Speciﬁcally, both humor and creativity require that an individual momentarily connects two previously divergent or unrelated notions (or expectation systems) in a novel way. This might suggest that humor makes individuals more cognitively ﬂexible and more accustomed to making associations between domains that are otherwise not seen as related. Enhanced cognitive ﬂexibility might be similar to what Abramis (1992) and others have described in terms of ‘‘play’’ (Csikszentmihalyi, 1996; Murdock & Ganim, 1993). Physiologically, this might suggest that activation in the brain caused by humor primes or facilitates activation that is necessary for creative thinking (and possibly the reverse), although we are not aware of any research that has examined this hypothesis speciﬁcally. An interesting research study might examine whether humor that is topic speciﬁc is necessary for increasing humor, or if activation caused by humor more generally is all that is needed.
