data/clean/13__chunk0893.md, before:

# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

ratings for predictor and criterion variables will help address this problem, and longitudinal designs will help clarify problems with ambiguous causality. Importantly, both problems can be addressed by well-designed literature laboratory research, which is underutilized in the humor (see Martin, 2001, and Ziv, 1988 for exceptions).

An examination of humor and culture in organizations also raises a number of applied issues that could bear on the utility of humor use in organizations. Some of these were raised by Malone (1980) and Duncan (1982), and have gone largely unanswered in the last two decades. For example, Malone questioned whether humor can be used effectively as a managerial tool, and if so, can it be used by just anybody? That is, can an ability to produce humor in socially appropriate contexts be learned, or is it dependent on humor-related traits? Similarly, one might ask how important humor appreciation is as a component of humor’s ability to inﬂuence organizationally relevant outcomes.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/13__chunk0893.md, after:

---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1d41bc70f70b470e7920e3b8090234719249f4e2
title: '13'
---
# Methodological Issues

One practical issue faced by researchers is whether the basic tools and methodologies are in place for researchers who want to enter this area without having to ‘‘re-invent the wheel.’’ The fact that humor has been of interest to researchers across disciplines has resulted in the application of diverse methodologies to its study. For example, participant observation (e.g., Linstead, 1985; Sykes, 1966), discourse analysis (e.g., Hatch, 1997), and quantitative content analysis (e.g., Holmes et al., 2001) have all been successfully employed. Social network analysis also represents a promising methodological approach to the study of humor in organizations. For example, one might examine whether individuals who use humor are likely to be highly central within workplace networks, to have larger networks, and to ﬁll structural holes (e.g., Burt, Joanotta, & Mahoney, 1998; Klein, Lim, Saltz, & Mayer, 2004).

In addition, there is a growing body of research that employs survey measures of humor [e.g., the Multidimensional Sense of Humor Scale (Thorson & Powell, 1993), the Humor Styles Questionnaire (Martin et al., 2003), the Sense of Humor Questionnaire (Svebak, 1996), and the Situational Humor Response Questionnaire (Martin & Lefcourt, 1984)]. Although these measures, as well as survey measures of cultural values (e.g., Schwartz, 1994; Singelis, Triandis, Bhawuk, & Gelfand, 1995) or organiza- tional outcomes might be useful, researchers must not be overreliant on such measures. Speciﬁcally, research using single informant, cross-sectional data collection is fraught with potential for ambiguous causality and misleading correlations (Ko¨ hler & Ruch, 1996). In particular, single-source of data biases are highly problematic if empirical relationships between humor and other socially desirable phenomena are to be examined. For example, as Avolio et al. (1999) note, when leader effectiveness and leader humor are rated by the same individual, ratings on one dimension are likely to inﬂuence ratings on the other dimension, resulting in inﬂated correlations. Multi-informant designs in which different individuals are asked to provide

255

256
