---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ab0dbbcd99e24c7364a03d255e99d7a0df8a34e0
title: '13'
---
# Evidence of Dynamic Performance

The earliest work on dynamic performance primarily focused on measuring job performance over time and the implications of any inconsistency for the validation of selection devices. Much of this early research addressed the question of ‘‘is performance dynamic?’’ That is, does job performance satisfy the earlier deﬁnitions of dynamic performance articulated above.

This work on dynamic performance was concerned with describing the nature of performance consistency. Essentially, this research challenged the assumption of a criterion that is reliable across time. While psychological research often insists on a highly reliable measure of job performance (or for that matter, any criterion) assessed at a point in time, scant attention was paid to whether the criterion had reliability from one time-period to the next. Consequently, a body of research emerged examining the reliability of performance ratings at various time lags (e.g., Ghiselli, 1956; Prien, 1966; Rambo, Chomiak, & Price, 1983; Rambo, Chomiak, & Rountree, 1987; Rothe, 1946, 1978; Rothe & Nye, 1958, 1959, 1961).

Other work in this area sought to determine the prevalence of simplex (or quasi-simplex) patterns in measures of job performance (e.g., Bass, 1962; Deadrick & Madigan, 1990; Dennis, 1954, 1956; Ghiselli & Haire, 1960; Hanges et al., 1990; Henry & Hulin, 1987). For job performance, the simplex pattern of correlations (Guttman, 1955; Humphreys, 1960) is a systematic decrease in the magnitude of correlations between measures of job performance as the time-span between performance measures increases. A perfect simplex is based on a model with no or negligible measurement error; a quasi-simplex model includes a measurement model (Jo¨ reskog, 1970). If job performance follows a simplex or quasi-simplex pattern, and especially if that led to correlations between measures of performance approaching zero, then this would suggest that the validity of selection devices could not be generalized across time. If true, then the utility (economic and practical) of selection devices would be much lower than cross-sectional research has suggested (Henry & Hulin, 1987).

55

56
