---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a340b83f162bfc057d4c82e0ccc6e3edc209992e
title: '13'
---
## Third Party Interventions across Cultures

accepted principles, they may be willing to forsake their own personal short- term gain to make sure that the principle is upheld fairly and consistently within the collective.

Speed or Timing of the Determined Settlements In some procedural contexts, the third party has the ﬂexibility to allow a settlement to occur (or can dictate a settlement) at any time in the process; for others, the third party is constrained by rules or expectations as to when s/he must render a binding decision. While more lengthy procedures may have certain advantages (e.g., issues may be examined thoroughly, the parties make concessions, or negotiate their own settlement), generally when people are in conﬂict, existing research shows that they want efﬁciency – a speedy resolution to their dispute (Sheppard, 1984). In some contexts the third party has also been found to be under some pressure to reach a speedy settlement (Elangovan, 1995). While most ADR procedures are more efﬁcient and faster than going to court, mediation and fact ﬁnding in general are comparatively slower than the different forms of arbitration.

Expectations and constraints around speed of settlement, however, are not always consistent within procedure, whether mediation, fact ﬁnding, or the different forms of arbitration. For example, there may be a med-arb procedure in one instance that does not limit the time spent during the mediation phase, and only moves into the arbitration phase if all attempts at voluntary agreement are exhausted. Alternatively, other implementations of the procedure may have speciﬁc expectations around how much time is allowed for the mediation phase and then disputants are forced into the arbitration phase whether or not they are ready. Perhaps one procedure that has more consistency is the arb-med procedure, where most of the second mediation phases have speciﬁc deadlines before the initial arbitrated decision is imposed.

The perception that ‘‘time is money’’ is particularly strong in the US, where efﬁciency of dispute processes (but allowing enough time for the parties to voice their individual level interests) is an important criteria for the selection of procedures. In collectivist cultures, a different factor may drive the desire for disputes to be settled quickly and quietly: the desire for there to be a minimum social disruption to harmony (Leung 1997; Tinsley, 1997). In individualist cultures where the satisfaction of individual interests is paramount, disputants will prefer to have third party decisions rendered late because that allows the parties the maximum opportunity to present evidence (and perhaps to engage in impression management tactics) to inﬂuence the outcome (Conlon & Fasolo, 1990). However, in collectivist

333

334

DONALD E. CONLON ET AL.

cultures, it is possible that rendering a decision quickly may help to prevent or avoid social disruption and maintain harmony (Tinsley, 1997; Leung, 1997). Furthermore, in cultures where saving face is a critical issue, short, quick processes and settlements may be preferable as not to expose either of the parties to a public exposure of possible wrongdoings or mistakes that could compromise personal reputations.

In other cultural contexts, however; other values may take precedence, making a longer, more thoughtful dispute process preferred in certain situations. Cultures where disputants are particularly concerned about the potential loss of face that can occur when disputes are handled carelessly may prefer a more thoughtful and slow procedure – for if great care is taken in the resolution of a dispute, the chance of offending someone by making a careless mistake and causing the loss of face is decreased.

Subjective Measures of Success This dimension is maximized if the disputants (and/or their constituents) are satisﬁed with the procedure and its outcomes and see both the procedure and outcomes as fair and successful (Thomas et al., 1978; Meyer et al., 1997).4 While one can conceptually distinguish procedural satisfaction from procedural fairness (Sheppard, 1984), these two dimensions are often highly correlated and have similar consequences: people do not want to use procedures that they do not like or do not see as fair (Lind et al., 1978; Sheppard, 1985).

The literature taking a functionalist view of justice suggests that there is a universal concern for justice (Leung & Tong, 2004; Leung & Stephan, 1998) (Morris & Leung, 2000). The and that importance or salience of different rules and the way in which they are implemented, however, has been suggested to vary signiﬁcantly across cultures (Morris & Leung, 2000). While procedural fairness and satisfaction may be important across cultures, we may ﬁnd different types of procedures or procedural criteria are perceived as fair or satisfactory within a cultural group. All other things being equal, a procedure is considered superior if the disputants’ believe that the procedure is fair and satisfactory (Carnevale et al., 1989), that is, according to whatever criteria drive perceptions of fairness and satisfaction. For example, in highly hierarchical cultures, perceptions of what is ‘‘fair’’ to a lower status individual might be very different from what is considered ‘‘fair’’ from the perspective of a higher status individual. Lower status individuals in such cultures have been found to be highly tolerant of harsh treatment by authorities (James, 1993), and may not have expectations for equal treatment. This is not to say, however,

justice rules are pan-cultural
