## Introducing the Need to Predict Employee Performance Vectors

It is now clear that job performance is dynamic, multidimensional, and constrained by turnover. For these reasons, I argue that the performance prediction problem needs to evolve beyond predicting a single performance score to the prediction of what I will label job performance vectors. While such a data structure is not novel from a statistical point of view, the information that such a metric contains presents a new approach to human resource research and human resource decision-making.

I deﬁne a job performance vector as a C (cid:1) N (cid:1) 3 matrix of information on a given employee (or applicant). This matrix includes C dimensions of performance (e.g., task performance, citizenship behaviors, counterproduc- tive behavior), projected for N time periods (e.g., annual performance for up to 10 year). The predicted performance level is one piece of information contained in the matrix (the ﬁrst component of the third dimension), the estimated accuracy of this estimate (e.g., standard error) is the second component of the third dimension, and the third component provides the estimated probability of the probability that the individual remains employed by the organization). Each individual’s matrix can contain information on both past performance and the predicted levels of performance and turnover likelihood.

the performance being observed (i.e.,

All human resource decisions that involve predicting performance (e.g., who to hire, who to promote, who to reward, who to train) can be based on the information contained in this matrix. Similarly, human resource interventions can be evaluated based on the their predicted effects on data contained in these matrices (e.g., what are the expected effects of implementing a new selection system, a new pay plan, a new training program, a new feedback system?).

Estimating performance vectors will require the combination of theory, empirical research, individual-speciﬁc information, and company-speciﬁc information. Existing theory and empirical evidence helps establish expected patterns. For evidence from research predicting performance trends can provide a baseline of expected values. That is, with no other information, instead of assuming