---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 38d57e2afab1030f568c5a52eb2abf6ef8f1c8a1
title: '13'
---
# CONCLUDING THOUGHTS

In this review, we have attempted to provide evidence strongly supporting the incorporation of employee PWB, along with job satisfaction, in future considerations of the happy/productive worker thesis. By deﬁnition, because job satisfaction is speciﬁc to one’s job, it excludes aspects of one’s life external to the job. This relatively narrow focus stands in marked contrast to research on PWB, which incorporates aspects of one’s life both on and off the job (Diener, 1984). Additional research is now needed to more closely examine the form and function of PWB. For example, while various forms of PWB (e.g., fatigued vs. agitated) are similar constructs because they possess large amounts of unpleasantness, they also differ because they possess differing measures of activation (Larsen & Diener, 1992). Awareness of these types of distinctions could be very relevant in better predicting employee behavior across different job situations. As an example, while experienced levels of enthusiasm and excitement might be inﬂuential in predicting performance or success in sales positions, experienced levels of fatigue or exhaustion might be more predictive in various client contact intensive positions, such as those in human services and social welfare. As well evidenced by our opening quote by Thorndike, the pursuit of workplace happiness is beneﬁcial, not only the employee, but also the employee’s family, friends, co-workers, even society at large.
