---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8e354da59563ac94750bce6459f7e2bd886e36f9
title: '13'
---
# (e.g., managerial assumptions

Determinants of System Culture Our SIO model posits that the culture of a social system (e.g., a society, an organization) is a function of the cultures of both the dominant groups (Arrow 1) and the non-dominant groups (Arrow 4). Note that in the interest of brevity, our discussion here deals with both societies and organizations. These groups derive their ideologies from their respective cultures. Note, however, the degree to which they inﬂuence system culture is a function of their relative levels of power (economic, political, military, etc.). Thus, for example, in most U.S. organizations, male, white Anglo-Saxon Protestants (MWASPs) have a considerably greater capacity to inﬂuence organizational cultures than do blacks, Latinos, Buddhists, American Indians, and females (Cox, 1993; Dipboye & Colella, 2005).

In any given social Conﬂict between Dominant and Non-Dominant Groups. system there is likely to be conﬂict between or among dominant and non- dominant groups (e.g., Tajfel, 1982a; Thomas & Chrobot-Mason, 2005). However, in most cases, the dominant groups will determine its outcome. Thus, for example, the culture of the U.S. has been inﬂuenced much more by the Europeans who colonized it than by the Native Americans who were indigenous to North America (Deloria, 1994).

Effects of Social System on the Culture of Dominant Groups2. Our SIO model postulates that the culture of a social system inﬂuences the cultures of its dominant groups (Arrow 2). Thus, to the degree that social system culture is an amalgam of the cultures of the dominant and non-dominant groups, the ideologies of the non-dominant groups will have some effect on the culture of the dominant groups (Arrows 2 and 4). As detailed below, one outcome of this in organizations is that views on the ideal characteristics of

119

120
