# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

culture and history can shape speciﬁc aspects of diversity (Mor-Barak, 2005). These considerations have prompted some scholars to consider how the nature and meaning of diversity may be driven by the country context. Ferner, Almond, and Colling (2005) examined the transfer of diversity management practices from US parent companies to UK subsidiaries. They found that the transfer and implementation of diversity management practices was complicated by the differing meanings of diversity within the US and UK. These ﬁndings raise questions regarding the role that country context plays in shaping diversity-related phenomena in non-US workplaces and call into question the somewhat US-centric conceptualiza- tion of diversity (Ferner et al., 2005). The growing internationalization of management research community has resulted in several studies that are being conducted in non-US contexts. For instance, in a Dutch context, Schippers, Den Hartog, Koopman, and Wienk (2003) examined the effects of an overall diversity measure (including age, gender, education, and team tenure) on outcomes including team reﬂexivity, satisfaction, commitment, and performance. Neither the overall diversity measure nor each aspect of diversity considered in this study had a direct impact on the outcomes considered. We surmise that at least a partial explanation for these non- signiﬁcant ﬁndings may be the nature of the Dutch context in which the study was conducted. Other research on the meaning of diversity in the Netherlands suggests that the Dutch associate the term ‘‘diversity’’ with ‘‘ethnic differences’’ or ‘‘immigrants’’ (see Mor-Barak, 2005). The diversity attributes considered by Schippers and colleagues may be less salient in the Dutch setting than perhaps national origin or ethnicity-based diversity.

In addition to the ways in which country location can shape the meaning of diversity, national culture may also shape the manner in which diversity dynamics play out in organizations. Culture is deﬁned as ‘‘the human-made part of the environment (Herskovits, 1955). It has both objective elements – tools, roads, and appliances – and subjective elements – categories, associations, beliefs, attitudes, norms, roles, and values’’ (Triandis, 1994, p. 113). Cultural values shape work-related attitudes and behaviors (Triandis, 1994). Hofstede’s fourfold framework of cultural dimensions has been considered a major landmark in the area of cross-cultural research (Triandis, 1994) and has provided an enduring framework for under- standing cultural differences in employee attitudes and behaviors. The four dimensions of culture, power distance, masculinity (femininity), uncertainty avoidance, and individualism (collectivism) have been widely applied in cross-cultural research for over two decades (Hofstede, 1980; for a review see Triandis, 1994). These dimensions have been useful in revising current