# (d) Physical activity or disability.

Crystal et al. (1997) reported that from either the perspective of a friend or a coworker, an unathletic child was less tolerated by students in (a) China than the U.S., and (b) the U.S. than in Japan. Related research by Crystal, Watanabe, and Chen (1999) considered students’ emotional responses to (a) being a disabled person who would go swimming with a group of non-disabled people (disabled role), and (b) being a non-disabled person who would go swimming with a disabled person (interactant role). Among the ﬁndings were that relative to U.S. students, Japanese students (a) in the disabled role indicated that they would be more embarrassed, have generally bad feelings, and would feel like they were causing trouble for others, and (b) in the interactant role reported that they would feel greater empathy, but would prefer to do something else.

Jacques, Linkowski, and Sieka (1969) studied attitudes toward people with disabilities among subjects from the U.S., Greece, and Denmark. Results showed that the most positive attitudes were expressed by people in the U.S., followed by individuals in Denmark and Greece.

(e) Learning disabilities or cognitive deﬁcits.

Crystal et al. (1997) showed that students in China were more likely to be intolerant of having a person with a learning disability as a friend than were students in the U.S. or Japan. However, the U.S. students were more intolerant of having a person with learning disabilities as a coworker than students in either China or Japan.