# THOMAS A. WRIGHT AND RUSSELL CROPANZANO

found that unfavorable feedback was more hurtful to those who were predisposed to negative feelings, and less hurtful to those who were predisposed to positive feelings. In addition, Rusting and Larsen (1997) found that favorable feedback yielded larger beneﬁts to those predisposed to positive feelings, while the beneﬁts were less for those predisposed to more negative feelings.

Similar results were obtained in a ﬁeld experiment conducted by Brief, Butcher, and Roberson (1995). Brief et al. found that not only were negatively toned people less sensitive to a positive event at work when compared with those more positively toned, but also that their mood was more difﬁcult to rise [in a positive direction] after a positive experience. In addition, these effects appear to continue over time due to the manner in which happy and unhappy people recall events (Wright, 2005). Simply stated, happy people tend to remember favorable events, while unhappy people tend to recall unfavorable ones (Seidlitz & Diener, 1993; Seidlitz et al., 1997). As noted by Cropanzano and Wright (2001), this tendency to emphasize the negative aspects of work life is likely to have deleterious consequences for employee job performance. This is especially so in any of the wide array of job settings involving a substantial amount of human interaction (Wright, 2005).

Happy people also tend to be more outgoing and extroverted (Diener, Sandvik, Pavot, & Fujita, 1992; Headley & Wearing, 1992; Myers & Diener, 1995). Conversely, unhappy people tend to be more cautious and protective in social situations, such as demonstrating an inclination toward introversion and/or shyness (Argyle, 1987). At times, unhappy people can even become hostile (for a further discussion, see Cropanzano & Wright, 2001; Wright, 2005). This contention is well supported in a longitudinal study by Bolger and Schilling (1991). These authors found that people who were predisposed to negative emotion were more likely to use argumentative interpersonal is not tactics, inconsistent that unhappy people report less co-worker and supervisory support than do their more happy counterparts (Staw, Sutton, & Pelled, 1994). Consistent with these ﬁndings, Lyubomirsky and Ross (1997) found that unhappy people were more readily attuned to social comparison information. They found that the moods of unhappy individuals were signiﬁcantly altered by whether they performed better or worse than a peer. In contrast, happy individuals seemed more likely to heed social comparisons when they could be used in a manner that was self-protective in nature. These ﬁndings further suggest the possibility that happy people are more likely to perform better on the wide range of jobs that require signiﬁcant amounts of social interaction (Cropanzano & Wright, 2001).

thereby provoking the anger of co-workers. Thus,