data/clean/13__chunk0394.md, before:

# if

Certainly, cross-sectional analysis has its limitations when considering job performance over time. The disadvantage of this approach is that conclusions must be based on two critical assumptions. First, one must assume that the mean level of the characteristic does not vary with time. For the example above, cognitive ability should not be lower for individuals with less experience than for those with more experience. Unfortunately, in the study of job performance, it is likely that this assumption will be violated. One reason this may occur is because of the demonstrated relationship between job performance and turnover (Trevor, Gerhart, & Boudreau, 1997; Salamin & Hom, 2005; Williams & Livingstone, 1994). If the characteristics under investigation are associated with performance, and if performance is related to turnover, then the distribution of the characteristic will likely change over time. Because of the negative relationship between performance and turnover (Williams & Livingstone, 1994), those with low levels of the characteristic would be expected to leave the company over time, and a cross-sectional representation would have a wider range of the characteristic for newer employees and a restricted distribution of the characteristics for those with more tenure. If high performers are also

77

78

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/13__chunk0394.md, after:

---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8aef846619989c2a6759f0a5427fc78436655834
title: '13'
---
## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

moderates the relationship between X and Y. Fortunately, time-related variables are frequently available in organizational research. Speciﬁcally, age, organizational tenure, and job experience are often available and used as control variables, but seldom are the complexities of the dynamic performance literature drawn upon to appropriately integrate such temporal variables in meaningful ways (Sturman, 2003). One way to consider potential dynamic effects is by looking for interactions associated with temporal variables. For example, if a given characteristic, say cognitive ability, is interacted with job experience, and this interaction is shown to be associated with job performance, a logical conclusion is that the effect of cognitive ability on job performance changes with time. Similarly, dividing employees into cohorts by experience (e.g., Farrell & McDaniel, 2001; Schmidt et al., 1986) allows one to consider longitudinal issues with cross- sectional data. For example, the coefﬁcients associated with an independent variable varies systematically across cohorts (like for cognitive ability as shown in Farrell & McDaniel, 2001), this evidence would support the conclusion that the effect of cognitive ability changes with the passage of time. Given we have prior reason to believe that cognitive ability is a stable characteristic, the presence of the type of signiﬁcant effects described above would suggest support for the changing tasks model. In terms of the static and dynamic model reviewed earlier, the effect of cognitive ability (B) is contained within B2(t).
