# INTRODUCTION

Over the past two decades the call for a business case for diversity has gained momentum in the US workplace. Yet, several comprehensive reviews on this topic are united in drawing the conclusion that research evidence demonstrating a business case for diversity is by and large equivocal (Harrison & Klein, 2007; Jackson, Joshi, & Erhardt, 2003; Milliken & Martins, 1996; Van Knippenberg & Schippers, 2007; Williams & O’Reilly, 1998). The lack of scientiﬁc evidence supporting the beneﬁts of diversity has not dimmed corporate investments in diversity management efforts. Nearly 95% of Fortune 1000 companies have diversity training initiatives in place (Grensing-Pophal, 2002) and diversity consultants generate annual revenues estimated to be between $400 million and $600 million (Hansen, 2003). We believe that this apparent mismatch between practitioner zeal and academic uncertainty has serious implications for future research on workplace diversity and can threaten future theory building in this area. To the extent that organizations are ‘‘customers’’ or ‘‘end-users’’ of the products of diversity research, the lack of a clear message hampers the market- orientation of this research. A market-orientation is vital for applied research in general and speciﬁcally for further theory building in the area of diversity for a number of reasons (cf. Dubin, 1976). Without a market orientation, the application of diversity research to the workplace may be called into question and the overall mandate for diversity in organizations may come under threat. After all, if researchers are unable to provide deﬁnitive answers regarding the beneﬁts and overall performance gains from diversity, why would companies continue to invest in and implement diversity management practices? The lack of a market orientation also implies that when the practical implications of past research are unclear, companies may be even less amenable to serve as research sites for ﬁeld researchers, thereby stymieing future empirical extensions of theory.

In this paper we propose that in order to resolve this dilemma, researchers need to reframe current approaches to diversity research by engaging in more comprehensive considerations of the context of diversity. Focusing only on the outcomes of work group level diversity without accounting for the environment in which these work groups are nested does not allow us to fully appreciate the complexity of diversity in organizations. Only a detailed consideration of the diversity context will allow researchers to gain an understanding of the mechanisms and boundary conditions under which diversity can translate into positive organizational outcomes. Such an approach also enhances the practical relevance of diversity research. We