---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3d21f00da55f879d0ff755846d11ab0b73b37eeb
title: '13'
---
# Newbury Park, CA: Sage.

House, R., Rousseau, D., & Thomas-Hunt, M. (1995). The meso paradigm: A framework for the integration of micro and macro organizational behavior. In: L. L. Cummings & B. M. Staw (Eds), Research in organizational behavior (Vol. 17, pp. 71–114). Greenwich, CT: JAI Press.

Howell, J. M., & Shamir, B. (2005). The role of followers in the charismatic leadership process:

Relationships and their consequences. Academy of Management Review, 1, 96–112.

Ilgen, D. R., Hollenbeck, J. R., Johnson, M., & Jundt, D. (2005). Teams in organization: From input-process-output models to IMOI models. Annual Review of Psychology, 56, 517–543. Jackson, S. E., & Joshi, A. (2004). Diversity in social context: A multi-attribute, multi-level analysis of team diversity and sales performance. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 25, 675–702.

Jackson, S. E., Joshi, A., & Erhardt, N. L. (2003). Recent research on team and organizational diversity: SWOT analysis and implications. Journal of Management, 29, 801–830. Jehn, K. A., Northcraft, G. B., & Neale, M. A. (1999). Why differences make a difference: A ﬁeld study of diversity, conﬂict, and performance in workgroups. Administrative Science Quarterly, 44, 741–763.

Johns, G. (1991). Substantive and methodological constraints on behavior and attitudes in organizational research. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 49, 80–104. Johns, G. (2006). The essential impact of context on organizational behavior. Academy of
