## Cognitive, Affective, and Cultural Inﬂuences on Stigmatization

colonized North and South America viewed blacks and the indigenous people of the Americas as quite appropriate for use as slave laborers (Deloria, 1994). And today, minority group members are over-represented in low status jobs.

Effects of Culture on Stereotypes and Other Cognitions Our SIO model posits that culture (e.g., national, organizational) inﬂuences the cognitions that observers develop about targets (Arrow 13). That is, the impact of a target’s ASI on the cognitive and emotional reactions of an observer will vary as a function of national and/or organizational culture. Stated somewhat differently, organizational culture moderates the relation between the ASI of targets and the observer’s responses. The reason for this is that stereotypes about various groups are often culture-based (Triandis, 1994). Socialization experiences within cultures lead individuals to positively value certain attributes of individuals and devalue others. As a result, characteristics that are discrediting in one society may not always be viewed similarly in another (e.g., Al-Issa, 2003; Marin & Marin, 1991; Neutra, Levy, & Parker, 1977; Solomon et al., 1991). Examples of cultural differences in stereotypes and stigmas are offered below.

Cognitions about the Target Views about the degree to which a target is stigmatized are only part of the set of cognitions that observers generate about a target. Research in social cognition (e.g., Mackie & Hamilton, 1993; Macrae et al., 1996) offers strong support for the view that observers categorize targets on the basis of information about a limited number of salient attributes (e.g., physical disability, race, appearance, age). A key reason for this is that categorization enables observers to simplify highly complex information about others (Allport, 1954; Mackie & Hamilton, 1993; Macrae et al., 1996). Thus, it may often play a role in various HRM processes and practices (e.g., recruitment, selection). For example, upon meeting potential job applicants, recruiters may categorize them on the basis of their race, age, and sex.

Stereotype-Based Inferences. Having categorized a target, the observer uses stereotypes about his or her category to infer the target’s standing on such attributes as intelligence, task competence, interpersonal skills, emotional adjustment, and integrity. For example, research shows that African- Americans are often stereotyped as unintelligent, lazy, and lacking integrity (Dovidio, Gaertner, Niemann, & Snider, 2001), and people with disabilities are viewed as helpless, bitter, and incompetent (Stone & Colella, 1996). Not

129

130