---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 29b2336a35b8b62d60598e000159cd6eadbd6368
title: '13'
---
# THOMAS A. WRIGHT AND RUSSELL CROPANZANO

of movement as evidenced by measures of employee job satisfaction (Mobley, 1982).

Prevailing theory and research have long maintained the importance of job satisfaction to the retention process (e.g., Frost, 1920; Lee, Mitchell, Sablynski, Burton, & Holton, 2004; Mobley, 1982). Unfortunately, and similar to the rather modest ﬁndings to date regarding job satisfaction and performance, Hom and Griffeth (1995) and Griffeth, Hom, and Gaertner (2000) reported meta-analytic ﬁndings demonstrating that job satisfaction typically accounts for less than 5% of employee withdrawal variance. While job satisfaction certainly remains a worthwhile variable for researchers to consider as regards both job performance and employee retention, we suggest that the consideration of job [dis]satisfaction by itself does not tell the complete story for why employees perform poorly/well and remain/ withdraw from their job (e.g., Hom & Griffeth, 1991; Hom et al., 1992; Tett & Meyer, 1993; Wright & Staw, 1999). Recently, a number of scholars the modest ﬁndings to date regarding the job have suggested that satisfaction–job performance (Judge et al., 2001; Wright & Cropanzano, 2004) and job satisfaction–employee retention relationships (Judge, 1993) may be better understood through examination of possible third-party or moderator variables.

Over 10 years ago, Judge (1993) noted the surprising lack of research investigating potential moderators of the job satisfaction to employee retention relationship. In like fashion, Judge and his colleagues (2001) suggested a number of potential moderators of the job satisfaction–job performance relationship. Building upon Judge et al. (2001) and Fredrickson (1998, 2001), Wright and Cropanzano (2004) and Wright and Bonett (2005, 2007) proposed employee PWB as an especially viable moderator of both the job satisfaction with performance and employee retention relationships. This possibility has lead to a renewed optimism among scholars about the prospects of ﬁnding practically meaningful relations between job satisfaction and job performance and between job satisfaction and employee retention. To that end, we next examine happiness considered as PWB.
