data/clean/13__chunk0080.md, before:

## A Multilevel Framework for Work Team Diversity Research

deﬁne diversity as an aggregate group level construct that represents differences among members of an interdependent work group with respect to a speciﬁc personal attribute (Harrison & Klein, 2007; Jackson et al., 2003). In the broader domain of management literature, context is deﬁned as the situational setting in which workplace phenomena occur (Cappelli & Sherer, 1991). This paper aims at providing a template for future research that might consider how various aspects of the situational setting can shape the outcomes of diversity in work groups.

Current theoretical perspectives framing diversity research, such as social identity theory, social categorization theory, or the attraction-selection- attrition framework, offer explanations for why differences within work groups may manifest in speciﬁc attitudinal outcomes such as conﬂict or cohesion or behavioral outcomes such as turnover or absenteeism (see Jackson et al., 2003). In general, current applications of these theoretical perspectives in diversity research have been a – contextual, that is, they have been applied to offer broad generalizations across various dimensions of diversity and across a wide array of work group and organizational outcomes. However, without considering the boundary conditions that may be relevant to these theoretical perspectives, they provide only insufﬁcient explanations for the diversity dynamics under consideration. In addition to ‘‘why’’ diversity manifests in speciﬁc outcomes, a careful examination of the situational setting would also incorporate ‘‘what’’, ‘‘when’’, ‘‘where’’, and ‘‘how’’, diversity dynamics unfold in the workplace; these contextual considerations are not often captured in studies (see Johns, 2006) and are pertinent for reconciling the mixed ﬁndings from past research.

To illustrate the role of context in explaining the mixed ﬁndings of past research, let us consider a recent set of studies that examined the effects of team demographic diversity on performance outcomes in ﬁeld settings. Kochan et al. (2003) recently published a report on four ﬁeld studies that considered various aspects of diversity in relation to performance outcomes. All four studies were conducted in organizations that had implemented diversity management practices for several years. Consistently, across these four studies, the authors reported few signiﬁcant main effects of diversity on team performance. Overall, gender diversity had either a weak positive effect or a non-signiﬁcant relationship with objective indicators of performance. Racial diversity had a weak negative relationship with team performance. In general, ﬁndings were stronger for the effects of diversity on process outcomes rather than performance outcomes. Other ﬁeld research also reports similar mixed ﬁndings (e.g., Kirkman, Tesluk, & Rosen, 2004; Pelled, Eisenhardt, & Xin, 1999).

3

4

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/13__chunk0080.md, after:

---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: afed563c13b397201c90d40062ce619e59b1ca6d
title: '13'
---
# INTRODUCTION

Over the past two decades the call for a business case for diversity has gained momentum in the US workplace. Yet, several comprehensive reviews on this topic are united in drawing the conclusion that research evidence demonstrating a business case for diversity is by and large equivocal (Harrison & Klein, 2007; Jackson, Joshi, & Erhardt, 2003; Milliken & Martins, 1996; Van Knippenberg & Schippers, 2007; Williams & O’Reilly, 1998). The lack of scientiﬁc evidence supporting the beneﬁts of diversity has not dimmed corporate investments in diversity management efforts. Nearly 95% of Fortune 1000 companies have diversity training initiatives in place (Grensing-Pophal, 2002) and diversity consultants generate annual revenues estimated to be between $400 million and $600 million (Hansen, 2003). We believe that this apparent mismatch between practitioner zeal and academic uncertainty has serious implications for future research on workplace diversity and can threaten future theory building in this area. To the extent that organizations are ‘‘customers’’ or ‘‘end-users’’ of the products of diversity research, the lack of a clear message hampers the market- orientation of this research. A market-orientation is vital for applied research in general and speciﬁcally for further theory building in the area of diversity for a number of reasons (cf. Dubin, 1976). Without a market orientation, the application of diversity research to the workplace may be called into question and the overall mandate for diversity in organizations may come under threat. After all, if researchers are unable to provide deﬁnitive answers regarding the beneﬁts and overall performance gains from diversity, why would companies continue to invest in and implement diversity management practices? The lack of a market orientation also implies that when the practical implications of past research are unclear, companies may be even less amenable to serve as research sites for ﬁeld researchers, thereby stymieing future empirical extensions of theory.

In this paper we propose that in order to resolve this dilemma, researchers need to reframe current approaches to diversity research by engaging in more comprehensive considerations of the context of diversity. Focusing only on the outcomes of work group level diversity without accounting for the environment in which these work groups are nested does not allow us to fully appreciate the complexity of diversity in organizations. Only a detailed consideration of the diversity context will allow researchers to gain an understanding of the mechanisms and boundary conditions under which diversity can translate into positive organizational outcomes. Such an approach also enhances the practical relevance of diversity research. We
