---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9c1fc93ecd5837834363c66c54dc21c8689b57ff
title: '13'
---
## Multidisciplinary Perspective of the SIO Model

Our SIO model is based on theory and research in such disciplines as social psychology, anthropology, cross-cultural psychology, industrial and orga- nizational psychology, HRM, organizational behavior, social psychiatry, and rehabilitation psychology. It extends extant models of stigmas in organizations (i.e., Stone et al., 1992; Stone & Colella, 1996) through the joint consideration of literature on such topics as stigmas (Goffman, 1963; Heatherton et al., 2003; Jones et al., 1984), social cognition (e.g., Brewer & Kramer, 1985; Macrae, Stangor, & Hewstone, 1996), culture (e.g., Triandis, 1994), social justice (Leventhal, 1976, 1980), and emotions and affect (e.g., Lazarus, Kanner, & Folkman, 1980; Mackie & Hamilton, 1993).

The description of our SIO model begins with a consideration of national culture and its effects on organizational culture. Following this we describe the concepts of stigmas and stigmatization. Then, we focus on factors that affect stigmatization. Next, we consider its consequences. Finally, we offer recommendations for practice and research.

Note that in the interest of brevity, most of the examples that are offered below have to do with stigma-related issues in U.S. organizations. This does not imply that stigmatization only occurs in such organizations. Quite to the contrary, stigmas generate negative reactions across organizations in various nations. However, as explained below, several attributes of individuals have more stigmatizing consequences in some cultures than in others.
