# to abilities

Although described as distinct, Ackerman postulates that individuals proceed through the three phases in a continuous manner. The effects of the various abilities on task performance change continuously with practice. The effect of general mental ability begins high and decreases; the effect of perceptual speed ability begins low, increases to a peak in Phase two, and ultimately decreases again; the effect of psychomotor ability begins low and increases with practice.

Ackerman also predicts that progression through stages is affected by the complexity and consistency of the task. Complexity refers to the cognitive demands of the task, including memory load, amount of information to process, number of responses, amount of information to be learned, and the amount of stimulus–response compatibility. Greater complexity changes the importance of the various abilities on performance. For example, in tasks with a weak compatibility between stimulus and response, the task will place higher cognitive demands on the learner to determine and execute the appropriate response. This places a greater emphasis on perceptual speed ability and delays the emphasis on general mental ability until further into the skill acquisition process (Ackerman, 1988).

Task consistency effects the rate in which tasks can be mastered. Initially, it has no effect on skill acquisition, as the task being learned is novel to all performers. However, the inconsistency in the task slows the rate in which practice allows for skill acquisition. As a result, inconsistent tasks require performers to depend on cognitive processing (i.e., Phase one) for longer periods of time.