## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

effects on the dependent variable of interest. If one controls for two instances of prior performance, one is then controlling for the linear effects of prior performance and the effects of performance changes. Controlling for three prior measures of performance controls for the linear effects associated with performance in addition to the effects associated with change and the effects associated with which the rate of change is itself changing. Obviously, using more measures of performance is more speciﬁed. More measures also presents a more conservative test if trying to show that some other independent variable (e.g., a bonus, a training program) has an effect on performance over time.

Research examining performance trends has generally examined no more than cubic trends (i.e., the rate in which the change in performance is changing) (e.g., Hofmann et al., 1992, 1993; Keil & Cortina, 2001; Ployhart & Hakel, 1998). Although it would be desirable to test the assumption that performance slopes can be described with up to cubic parameters, controlling for three measures of prior job performance may fully capture the effects associated with performance trends. Of course, longitudinal research is often rare, and adding the extra demand that job performance have at least four waves of data would only make such research less feasible. Researchers should be aware of the potential effects of non- linear (cubic) performance trends when considering longitudinal models of performance. However, given the current lack of research in this area, potential speciﬁcation error of effects associated with prior performance is a limitation that is worth accepting until the quantity of knowledge in this area is sufﬁciently expanded.