## The Happy/Productive Worker Thesis Revisited

ways to enhance their PWB through any number of training-based interventions (for reviews, see Cooper, Dewe, & O’Driscoll, 2001). While a review of the mental health literature is beyond the scope of this paper, we emphasize a number of strategies exist that help individuals lead happier and more fulﬁlling lives (Quick et al., 1997). Particularly promising are strategies where employees are trained to proactively self-monitor or manage their personal perceptions to enhance positive, and discourage negative, displays of emotion. For example, constructive self-talk is a learned technique that replaces negative with more positive or reinforcing self-talk (Eliot, 1995).

These techniques can also generate economic beneﬁts for employers. For example, Wells et al. (2000) found that introducing a program to treat depressed workers improved employee mental health and decreased turnover. Likewise, Kessler et al.(1999) reported that the lost productivity due to absenteeism among depressed workers cost a ﬁrm nearly as much as treatment. Notice, of course, that Kessler et al.’s estimate is conservative, as they did not consider the economic impact of lower job performance. However, as well evidenced in our earlier discussion, and complementing Kessler et al.’s ﬁndings, low employee well-being has been consistently related to decreased job performance (Wright, 2005). At the very least, the literature reviewed here suggests that ﬁrms should think carefully before cutting back on essential services. For example, when one large, self-insured corporation reduced spending on employee mental health, workers were absent more frequently and were forced to use other health services. In the end, the organization failed to save money and employees were worse off (Rosenheck, Druss, Stolar, Leslie, & Sledge, 1999).