# OVERVIEW

Volume 26 of Research in Personnel and Human Resources Management continues the tradition of publishing papers that contain an eclectic mix of ideas from economics, psychology, and sociology written to illuminate our understanding of the HRM ﬁeld and to capture the multidisciplinary spirit of the ﬁeld. This volume contains seven engaging papers on important HRM topics such as the notion of diversity context, dynamic performance research, and the role of humor in promoting creativity and other positive outcomes.

In the ﬁrst paper, Joshi and Roh consider the context of workplace diversity to help shed light on the mixed research ﬁndings on work team diversity. They discuss how diversity context may be conceptualized, specify various aspects of this context at multiple levels of analysis, and consider how contextual variables can shape the outcomes of work team diversity. These researchers present ﬁndings from a literature review (1999–2006) to identify key trends and patterns of results reported in recent research as well as contextual factors that have received attention to date. Joshi and Roh also consider how the non-signiﬁcant, positive, negative, and curvilinear effects of diversity found reported in studies can be explained by the contextual factors outlined. Implications for future research are also discussed.

In the second paper, Sturman reviews the extensive history of dynamic performance research, with the goal of providing a clear picture of where the ﬁeld has been, where it is now, and where it needs to go. Past research has established that job performance does indeed change, but the implications of this dynamism and the predictability of performance trends remain unresolved. From this review, Sturman proposes research questions to bridge the theoretical and methodological gaps of this area. Answering these questions can advance both research involving job performance prediction and our understanding of the effects of human resource interventions.

In the third paper, Stone-Romero and Stone remind us how individuals are often stigmatized by virtue of their status on various dimensions and that they are often the targets of both access and treatment discrimination in organizations. The authors present a model of the cognitive, affective, and ix