---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1f142ff49c068ffff1a3d9eccd5410742683ae2e
title: '13'
---
## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

stigmas (e.g., race, religion), abominations of the body (e.g., physical disabilities), and blemishes of character (e.g., mental illness). As is noted below, an observer’s reactions to any given stigma are a function of such factors as its concealability, course, disruptiveness, aesthetic qualities, origin, and peril (Jones et al., 1984).

Motives for Stigmatizing Others The literature on stigmas considers several motives (reasons, rationales, functions) for the stigmatization of targets by observers (e.g., Stephan, Ybarra, & Bachman, 1999) and the subsequent treatment of the targets by markers (i.e., those who stigmatize others) in social systems. In work organizations, the markers include recruiters, selection specialists, and members of an employee’s role set (e.g., supervisors, peers, subordinates; Katz & Kahn, 1978).

It deserves noting that the literature on motives for stigmatizing others typically deals with issues that are not HRM-speciﬁc. However, it seems quite reasonable to assume that the same motives operate in work organizations. Thus, we believe that they are worthy of consideration here. In the subsections that follow, we detail eight motives for stigmatizing targets. Note that even though they are described separately, in many instances the motives overlap. For instance, the political subordination of outgroup members often serves to enhance the esteem of ingroup members.

Enhancement of the Esteem of One’s Own Group. Social identity theory (e.g., Tajfel, 1974, 1978, 1981, 1982a, 1982b; Tajfel & Turner, 1979; Turner, 1982, 1987) and related perspectives (e.g., Crocker et al., 1998) posit that individuals stigmatize others in order to enhance the standing of their own group and, thereby, their self-esteem. For example, the esteem of ingroup members (e.g., MWASPs) can be enhanced to the extent that outgroup members (e.g., women, blacks, American Indians) are viewed as inferior and treated accordingly.

Limiting Ingroup Membership. People strive to control membership in their ingroups. One mechanism for doing this is to exclude members of outgroups. This limits the number of individuals among whom valued resources must be divided, thus improving the welfare of those who have ingroup status. In work organizations, for example, women and racial minorities have often encountered the so called ‘‘glass ceiling.’’ As a result, they seldom rise to top management positions (Broverman et al., 1994; Kanter, 1977; Schein & Mueller, 1992).
