---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1bc28218a5795a8769c163bcfe69f0bde858bd6c
title: '13'
---
## Cognitive, Affective, and Cultural Inﬂuences on Stigmatization

Aesthetic Qualities. Appearance-related marks differ in terms of the degree to which they lead observers to regard a target as repulsive, ugly, or upsetting. As a result, some stigmas (e.g., severe physical deformities, severe facial scarring from burns) tend to evoke more negative emotional responses than do others (e.g., cleft palate, acne). For instance, Experiment 1 of Blascovich et al. (2001) showed that compared with a target without a facial birthmark, a target with such a mark evoked increased levels threat among subjects, as indexed by cardiovascular reactivity. In addition, the birthmark had effects on other measures (e.g., decreased performance on a word- ﬁnding task).

Origin or Controllability. Stigmas differ in terms of the degree to which they can be attributed to the prior actions of the target (e.g., Dijker & Koomen, 2003; Dijker & Raeijmaekers, 1999; Jones et al., 1984; Weiner et al., 1988). For example, whereas race is considered not to be under the target’s control, alcoholism and other forms of addiction are typically viewed as subject to his or her control. And research shows that the greater the degree to which a mark can be attributed to the actions of the target, the more negative the observer’s emotional reactions to it. For example, research by Dijker and Raeijmaekers (1999) studied anticipated emotional responses (i.e., anxiety) to having simple contact with, giving a physical examination to, or giving an injection to hypothetical patients with diseases that varied in terms of being (a) non-serious (appendicitis, hepatitis) versus serious (kidney cancer, AIDS), and (b) non-contagious (appendicitis, kidney cancer) versus contagious (hepatitis, AIDS). The patients also varied in terms of sexual orientation (heterosexual vs. homosexual). Results showed, for example, that friendly feelings were lower toward homosexuals than heterosexuals with contagious diseases. One plausible explanation for this is that the homosexuals brought the diseases upon themselves.

In three experiments, Dijker and Koomen (2003) studied the effects of personal responsibility for a stigma on emotional reactions to hypothetical interactions with stigmatized targets. Results of Experiment 1 revealed that as personal responsibility increased (a) pity and the desire to help the target decreased, and (b) anxiety and anger increased. In addition, Experiment 2 showed, for example, that (a) when a person was responsible for their illness, subjects had a tendency to avoid him and showed him less pity, and (b) as responsibility increased there were increases in both expected irritation in interacting with the target and the tendency to avoid the target. Finally, Experiment 3 showed, for instance, that as increases in expected personal responsibility increased there were (a)
