# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

current section, in which our goal is to employ theory from cross-cultural research to examine how culture might inﬂuence humor processes.

To organize our discussion of this topic, we divide our analysis of cultural inﬂuences into the three categories represented by each of the humor process mechanisms discussed previously: socio-motivational, cognitive, and emo- tional. However, the conceptualization of ‘‘culture’’ for this purpose is not a simple matter, and it is important that we address this issue. Culture has been conceptualized in many different ways. For instance, Kluckhohn (1954) uses the analogy that culture is to society as memory is to the individual. Hofstede (1991) describes culture as a collective programming of the mind. At a somewhat more concrete level, Triandis (1994) describes culture as what ‘‘has worked’’ for a society, and what is worth passing on. Dawkins (1989) labels these speciﬁc elements of culture ‘‘memes,’’ and suggests that like genes, memes replicate themselves through transmission from generation to generation within a society. Although speciﬁc conceptualizations of culture can vary substantially, they all highlight the notion that culture is shared by members of a society. In addition, they indicate that because culture is pervasive across people and time within a society, individuals are unlikely to be consciously aware of their own cultural values, beliefs, and assumptions. It is this unconscious inﬂuence on our behavior that makes the examination of culture so fundamentally interesting, and so practically important as the world shrinks and people from different cultures come into increasing contact. Most of the cross-cultural literature on the inﬂuence of culture on human behavior, in organizational contexts and otherwise, has focused on dimensions of culture. Cultural dimensions are coherent sets of values, beliefs, or assumptions about the social or physical environment, which are meaningful to people around the world (i.e., people everywhere understand what you are talking about when you describe a dimension), but differ in strength of endorsement across societies. A great deal of the literature has focused on dimensions identiﬁed and/or developed by Hofstede (1980) in his seminal work at IBM (i.e., power distance, individualism–collectivism, masculinity–femininity, and uncertainty avoidance). Of these, the dimension of individualism–collectivism has clearly received the most empirical and theoretical attention, and appears to have important effects on cognition and behavior (see Triandis, 1995, for a comprehensive review). Power distance has also received considerable attention, and a number of authors have suggested that power distance might be particularly important in organizational contexts (e.g., Earley & Gibson, 1998). In our analysis, we focus substantially on individualism–collectivism and power distance to develop propositions about the inﬂuence of culture on humor processes.