# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

performance measures should follow the same functional form as the results-based performance. Common to such macro aggregation of perspectives, the key assumption behind a model of aggregated job performance is that there are substantial consistencies in the behavior of individuals, hence making it is possible to focus on aggregate responses and ignore variation across individuals (Klein & Kozlowski, 2000; Kozlowski & Klein, 2000). As Learning Curve Theory describes the aggregated productivity of an organization, the applicability of the theory to evaluative performance measures would be conﬁrmed when evaluative measures of job performance are well-modeled by Learning Curve Theory functions.

While so far I have argued that Learning Curve Theory, in principle, may job be valuable for understanding individual evaluative measures of performance over time, speciﬁc adaptation of the theory is necessary before it is possible to conﬁrm or falsify this proposition. This application will require three issues to adapt Learning Curve Theory (back) to under- standing individual job performance.

First, the correct functional form needs to be identiﬁed. The Wright model (Eq. (8)) does not speciﬁcally lend itself to modeling job performance ratings. The Wright model is most applicable for modeling costs, with the functional form showing a decrease in costs with the accumulation of job performance to experience. With performance ratings, we expect increase with the accumulation of experience (Sturman, 2003), and other research has suggested a quadratic form to performance trends (e.g., Hofmann et al., 1992, 1993; Keil & Cortina, 2001; Ployhart & Hakel, 1998). The literature on performance trends and Learning Curve Theory can be combined to yield an appropriate functional form for modeling job performance over time.

Second, another assumption of Learning Curve Theory is that it is used to model repetitive tasks, and its applications have been predominantly in the manufacturing sector. Although this is not a ﬂaw in the theory, it does limit its potential generalizability to a wider array of jobs and the modeling of individual performance scores. Job complexity has been shown to moderate relationships with job performance, particularly with regard to temporal issues (Farrell & McDaniel, 2001; Sturman, 2003; Sturman et al., 2005). Because job complexity affects the relationship between time and perfor- mance (Sturman, 2003) and the stability of job performance ratings over time (Sturman et al., 2005), it will affect the functional form of performance over time. The resultant functional form of learning to represent job performance over time should be explicitly capable of incorporating the effects associated with job complexity.