---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: eee1dcd7fe146816d3f93784f36a3a80573a8297
title: '13'
---
## A Multilevel Framework for Work Team Diversity Research

outcomes. Other forms of diversity such as diversity as variety or separation are more likely to be inﬂuenced by discrete context. For example, contextual factors such as the nature of the task, technology or climate in the team may inﬂuence the extent to which team members are likely to identify and utilize each others varied expertise (i.e., diversity as variety) or communicate with each other based on perceived similarity (i.e., diversity as separation). Overall, we suggest that the nature and conceptualization of diversity in a study should inform the speciﬁc aspects of context that are more likely to be salient.

inﬂuence diversity outcomes? Answering how contextual variables at higher levels of aggregation such as the organiza- tion or society can shape work group diversity outcomes remains a challenge from a theoretical standpoint. While there is growing apprecia- tion and demand for cross-level research, there is less theoretical guidance on possible mechanisms that can link the various levels at which diversity context was discussed in this paper. We call for greater integration between sociological, political and psychological disciplines to examine the inter- play between various levels of diversity considered in this study. Skaggs and DiTomaso (2004) presented an extremely comprehensive and multi- disciplinary review of research on the effects of organizational demo- graphics on workplace outcomes such as pay, career progression, job satisfaction and performance. The authors integrated sociological, psychological, and management literatures to argue that status inequalities are perpetuated in organizations through managerial practices and can have implications for interactional processes between group members. We call for similar integrations of macro–micro perspectives to understand how other omnibus level factors can inﬂuence within team dynamics. 3. ‘‘When’’ is diversity likely to impact a given set of team outcomes? As discussed in this paper, temporal factors both at omnibus and discrete levels can have a powerful impact on the outcomes of diversity. The emphasis on longitudinal team diversity research that we found in our review has been extremely valuable for understanding how the dynamics of diversity unfolds within the team. In the current review, 14 longitudinal studies were identiﬁed which accounted for 15% of total studies included. However, omnibus time is also an important contextual consideration for future research. Understanding the role that societal and organizational events in shaping diversity outcomes would enable us to account for why speciﬁc aspects of diversity would be more important to consider in certain situations versus others. As noted by Johns (2006), temporal considerations would also inﬂuence the type of dependent variables that

- 2. ‘‘How’’ does context

41

42
