# Beverly Hills, CA: Sage Publications.

Hofstede, G. (1991). Cultures and organizations: Software of the mind. London: McGraw-Hill. Hosoda, M., Stone-Romero, E. F., & Coats, G. (2003). The effects of physical attractiveness on job-related outcomes: A meta-analysis of experimental studies. Personnel Psychology, 56, 431–462.

Hough, L. M., Oswald, F. L., & Ployhart, R. E. (2001). Determinants, detection, and amelioration of adverse impact in personnel selection procedures: Issues, evidence, and lessons learned. International Journal of Selection and Assessment, 9, 152–194. Hsu, F. L. K. (1961). American core values and national character. In: F. L. K. Hsu (Ed.), Psychological anthropology: Approaches to culture and personality (pp. 209–233). Homewood, IL: Dorsey.

Hughes, L. (1994). The collected poems of Langston Hughes. New York: Knopf. Jacques, M. E., Linkowski, D. C., & Sieka, F. L. (1969). Cultural attitudes toward disability: Denmark, Greece, and the United States. International Journal of Social Psychology, 16, 54–62.

James, E. H., Brief, A. P., Dietz, J., & Cohen, R. (2001). Prejudice matters: Understanding the reactions of Whites to afﬁrmative action programs targeted to beneﬁt Blacks. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86, 1120–1128.

Jones, E. E., Farina, A., Hastorf, A. H., Markus, H., Miller, D. T., & Scott, R. A. (1984). Social

stigma: The psychology of marked relationships. New York: Freeman. Kanter, R. M. (1977). Men and women of the corporation. New York: Basic Books. Katz, D., & Kahn, R. (1978). The social psychology of organizations (2nd ed.). New York: Wiley. Katz, S. (2003). Physical appearance: The importance of being beautiful. In: J. M. Henslin (Ed.), Down to earth sociology: Introductory readings (12th ed., pp. 313–320). New York: Free Press. Kitayama, S., Markus, H. R., Matsumoto, H., & Norasakkunkit, V. (1997). Individual and collective processes in the construction of the self: Self-enhancement in the United States and self-criticism in Japan. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 72, 1245–1267. Korman, A. K. (1989). The outsiders: On the relationship between Jewish Americans and

corporate America in the problem of work and career. Man and Work, 2(1), 53–58.

Kurtz, S. P. (1999). Butterﬂies under cover: Cuban and Puerto-Rican gay masculinities in