## Third Party Interventions across Cultures

Double Final Offer Arbitration Double FOA (Van de Kragt, Stark, Notz, & Boschman, 1989) is similar to FOA in that the third party must choose from submitted ﬁnal offers and cannot craft a unique settlement as in binding arbitration. In double FOA, however, the disputant submits two ﬁnal offers of roughly equivalent value to the arbitrator; the opposing side does the same. The arbitrator then determines which side’s offers are to be imposed and then the losing party chooses the ﬁnal outcome (e.g., the arbitrator chooses the union’s two offers and management chooses which of the two are implemented) from the two submitted by the successful party (Van de Kragt et al., 1989). A recent study found that one beneﬁt of double FOA compared with both binding and regular FOA is that there is less of a ‘‘narcotic’’ effect in repeated bargaining situations, and therefore a higher degree of voluntary settlement (Dickinson, 2004). Another beneﬁt of double FOA is that decision acceptance by the ‘‘losing’’ party should be higher, as they at least get to choose the form of the unpleasant outcome that they will have to endure. Therefore, this procedure might be especially appropriate in contexts (cultural or otherwise) where the need for face saving and desire to push forward individual interests is high, as then the losing party is able to appear to gain face by having some control and choice over the implemented outcome.

Night Baseball Arbitration A third variation on FOA is the use of ‘‘night baseball’’ arbitration (Ross, 2005; Coltri, 2004). Here, the disputants put their ﬁnal offer(s) in sealed envelopes. They present arguments, evidence, and expert testimony to support their unarticulated positions on the issues. This is so that the arbitrator can decide the issues based on the evidence without being distracted by the formal positions taken by each side (10 different species of ADR, Nov./Dec. 1993, p. 19). The arbitrator then adjourns to create a non- binding opinion; because the opinion is not limited to any speciﬁc proposals, it is, in this sense, like binding arbitration. Next, the arbitrator opens the two envelopes containing the ﬁnal offers and compares the offers with his or her own non-binding opinion. The ﬁnal offer that is closest to the arbitrator’s own opinion is selected and becomes the binding agreement. Although less widespread than FOA, this procedure has been used in insurance disputes (e.g., medical malpractice claims), personal injury disputes, and division of ownership of intellectual property disputes (Montaqu-Smith, 1998), often where only one – generally a distributive – issue is involved (e.g., how much money should be paid).

317

318

DONALD E. CONLON ET AL.

Final Offer Arbitration by Issue vs. Package A ﬁnal note of complexity to add to these forms of FOA is that one can also decide whether to use the ﬁnal offers of the parties ‘‘by issue’’ vs. ﬁnal offer ‘‘by package’’. In ﬁnal offer by package (or double ﬁnal offer by package or night baseball by package), the third party is constrained to picking one side’s entire set of offers across all issues in dispute. In ﬁnal offer by issue, the arbitrator can pick some offers made by each disputant, selecting, for example, management’s ﬁnal offer on salary adjustments but the union’s ﬁnal offer on health care co-payments. A ‘‘ﬁnal offer by package’’ procedure can be difﬁcult to implement, as parties can put in attractive solutions on a key issue or issues to lure the arbitrator to their solution, but then also include more extreme or ‘‘unfair’’ solutions to other issues (Zack, 2003). Therefore, some practitioners suggest that FOA and its derivatives are more fairly used across single issues than for packages (Zack, 2003).