---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ad9e39792e81050ccc79ba6265361696c1e6f043
title: '13'
---
## Cognitive, Affective, and Cultural Inﬂuences on Stigmatization

Dealing with Negative Interdependence. When groups are interdependent, it is possible for the actual or anticipated behavior of outgroup members to interfere with the attainment of goals of ingroup members (Thibaut & Kelley, 1959; Fiske & Ruscher, 1993). In such instances, the evoked threat will result in ingroup members experiencing negative affect and taking actions to reduce or eliminate the threat (Fiske & Ruscher, 1993). Thus, for example, in U.S. work organizations there has been considerable conﬂict between members of management (the ingroup) and unions (the outgroup). More generally, Schneider’s (1987) ASA model suggests that ingroup members in organizations will take steps to promote the attrition of outgroup members.

In the interest of insuring the welfare Exploitation of Outgroup Members. of the ingroup, its members will strive to dominate (e.g., enslave, exploit) members of weaker outgroups (Kurzban & Leary, 2001). For example, in the southwestern part of the U.S., Mexican immigrants are often used as cheap sources of labor, who often perform dangerous or undesirable tasks. Moreover, in the U.S. there is a long history of the exploitation of Native Americans and blacks by whites (Deloria, 1994). These practices, no doubt, were a function of Europeans viewing ‘‘Africans as a low-status group that their own superior they safely domesticate and exploit because of technological power’’ (Fiske et al., 2002, p. 899).

Justiﬁcation of Extant Structures. Stigmatization serves as a basis for the justiﬁcation of extant of social, economic, or political structures, especially those that beneﬁt ingroup members. For instance, such practices as slavery and the theft of land from indigenous people (e.g., American Indians) have often been justiﬁed by ingroup members viewing outgroup members (e.g., blacks, Asians) as subhuman or less worthy than ingroup members (Brown, 1970; Deloria, 1994; Fiske et al., 2002). In addition, stereotypes about women have diminished their opportunities in the world of work (Broverman et al., 1994; Kanter, 1977; Schein & Mueller, 1992).

Avoidance of Poor Social Exchange Partners. Stigmas are often a sign that a person will be a poor social exchange partner (Kurzban & Leary, 2001). This category includes people who (a) have unpredictable goals and behavior (e.g., the mentally ill), (b) possess low levels of intellectual, social, and economic capital (e.g., the poor, the inﬁrm, the elderly), or (c) have a history of cheating others (e.g., criminals). Observers tend to distance themselves from such individuals and have negative emotional responses to

125

126
