---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8a53186f440ba462e299d4ab5127387030515f07
title: '13'
---
## The Happy/Productive Worker Thesis Revisited

decision-makers, showed better interpersonal behaviors, and received higher overall performance ratings. Staw and Barsade’s study is important for two reasons. First, it used objective, quantiﬁable indices of performance (e.g., an ‘‘in-basket’’ measure). This argues against the possibility that correlations between well-being and job performance are simply misperceptions (Cropanzano & Wright, 2001; Robbins & DeNisi, 1994). Second, Staw and Barsade’s quasi-experimental data suggest the possibility of a causal relation, in particular, that performance increases when well-being is high.

Potential external validity concerns were addressed in a later ﬁeld study by Staw et al. (1994). In their longitudinal study, Staw and his colleagues assessed well-being by forming an ad hoc scale out of items indicating the presence of negative emotion (e.g., depression) and the absence of positive emotion. Eighteen months later they measured various criterion variables. In particular, when compared with those who were low in well-being, workers high in well-being had superior performance evaluations and higher pay. The key ﬁnding of their research was that well-being predicted both a subjective and an objective indicator of performance.

The body of work by Staw and his colleagues is suggestive that well-being causes increases in job performance. Additional support for this directional relationship is found in a two-year longitudinal study conducted by Wright et al. (1993). Using the 8-item Index of PWB developed by Berkman (1971a, 1971b), Wright and his colleagues found that average well-being (Time 1 and Time 2 together) was positively related to supervisory performance ratings at Time 3. A ﬁve-year longitudinal study by Cropanzano and Wright (1999) found similar results. Using the same Index of PWB, Cropanzano and Wright determined that average well-being measured six months apart (Time 1 and Time 2) was positively related to job performance measures at Time 3 (Year 4). The possibility of a causal path from well-being to performance was addressed in research by Wright and Staw (1999). Wright and Staw’s two longitudinal studies – incorporating multiple measures of both performance and well-being – demonstrated that Berkman’s measure of PWB signiﬁcantly predicted supervisory performance ratings beyond the variance accounted for by prior supervisory performance ratings. In the aggregate, these ﬁndings strongly support the possibility that well-being is a cause of job performance (Wright, 2005).

It is also beneﬁcial to consider the effects of other potential confounding variables. This was undertaken in a longitudinal study conducted by Wright and Bonett (1997). In this study, the authors determined that well-being was a positive predictor of job performance. Furthermore, the well-being–job performance relation remained signiﬁcant even after controlling for the

285

286
