---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d1ecedc3369f2e4413b9590e4ffd34887eb082fa
title: '13'
---
# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

When an individual understands the cultural context, he or she is more likely to avoid producing jokes that are not be supported by the expectation system of the audience, or that will offend others by attacking deeply held assumptions, values, or beliefs. When an individual is very conﬁdent of his or her understanding of the culture and its expectation systems, successful humor production and the avoidance of cultural faux pas should be possible. Similarly, others’ attempts at humor are more likely to be appreciated, potentially helping to cement the bonds between humor producer and audience that come from shared humor.

Again, although this principle is straightforward, we believe it might be fundamental to the study of humor and culture, and useful for exploring interesting phenomena. For example, it might be useful for the study of expatriate success. Developing a level of cultural understanding at which humor can be appreciated and produced might be an important indicator of success for expatriate managers, or those who work with a multicultural workforce. Indeed, successful navigation of humor within a novel culture might be an excellent indicator of acculturation and interaction adjustment (Black & Stephens, 1989). Furthermore, researchers have linked language ability to both acculturation (Berry et al., 1987), and to the appreciation of humor (Burke, 1995; Schmitz, 2002), but we are unaware of any research that has bridged this gap to explore links between acculturation and humor production and/or appreciation. Such a link might be a particularly fruitful avenue for a number of reasons. First, humor has been touted as an important tool for relieving stress (Feigelson, 1989), which is seen as an important negative outcome of the acculturation process. Furthermore, intergroup anxiety experienced by those who are attempting to acculturate is an important source of acculturative stress (Greenland & Brown, 2005), but humor might serve to reduce that anxiety by helping individuals cement interpersonal bonds through the shared common experience of laughter (e.g., Owren & Bachorowski, 2003). Therefore, an understanding of culturally based expectation systems might enhance humor production and appreciation, which has the potential to reduce acculturative stress, as well as some of the sources of that stress.
