---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c295b0e5da4eb3820fa6010a06a36ae46d05df3e
title: '13'
---
## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

directness of orders, and self-deprecating humor might be used to reduce any sense of hierarchical differences brought on by formal titles and reporting relationships.

In high power distance organizations, located in low power distance societies, the sparks might ﬂy. Speciﬁcally, low status individuals are sanctioned by the society to challenge authority, but the ability to use humor openly might be restricted by the threat of potential punishment by higher status individuals for violating organizational norms (e.g., low pay, no raises, termination, etc.). In such a case, individuals might respond with the use of subversive humor. Such humor is often difﬁcult to trace to its origins, and can be particularly biting (see Linstead, 1985; Rodrigues & Collinson, 1995; Taylor & Bain, 2003). In contrast, managers are sanctioned to use humor by the organization, and might react negatively to the subversive humor used by subordinates by using their own aggressive humor (e.g., disparaging or ridiculing humor) to emphasize status differences and to ‘‘put employees in their place.’’

Humor use in organizations in high power distance societies might also show predictable patterns of humor use. Generally speaking, an ambient culture of respect for those in authority is created in high power distance societies. When organizational power distance is low, light hearted teasing humor (e.g., Scogin & Pollio, 1980) might be employed by lower status individuals, because such humor connotes acceptance by the group (Fine & De Soucey, 2005). In high power distance societies, low status individuals might also employ ingratiatory humor (Cooper, 2005) to butter up their managers and supervisors. Ingratiation has the biggest potential payoff when the ingratiation targets have power to give the humorist valued resources; this is most likely in high power distance organizations.

Besides ingratiation, however, the case of high power distance organiza- tions located in high power distance societies might represent the proverbial ‘‘humor desert,’’ with regard to humor directed up or down the hierarchy. In such contexts, because status and power are seen as legitimate in high power distance societies, both humor that is used to maintain collegiality (e.g., by making orders less direct), and humor used to maintain social distance and control, might be seen as unnecessary. This is because supervisors in high power distance societies are expected to issue orders and directives, so there is no need to ‘‘sugar-coat’’ or mask orders. Similarly, because subordinates accept the fact that leaders’ power and status is legitimate, attempts to use humor as a form of subversion or resistance to maintain autonomy are unnecessary. In fact, a supervisor’s attempt to maintain authority using aggressive humor (e.g., sarcasm, teasing employees) might even be seen as

241

242
