---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e383450dc6017a0b52fd0a07e2b59228151899d3
title: '13'
---
## (Edward L. Thorndike, The Psychology of Labor, 1922, p. 805).

As the quote from Thorndike, one of the applied psychology’s preeminent leading early lights clearly suggests, issues surrounding the happy/productive worker thesis have long been questions of extreme interest and importance for organizational scholars and practitioners alike (cf., Hersey, 1932a, 1932b; Houser, 1927; Kornhauser & Sharp, 1932; Pennock, 1930). According to this ‘‘Holy Grail’’ of management research (Landy, 1985), all things being equal, workers who are ‘‘happy’’ with their work should have higher job performance and be less likely to turnover, while those who are less happy are assumed to be less productive and more likely to turnover. However, in sharp contrast to Thorndike’s lofty expectations, for the past several decades, efforts to test the happy/productive worker thesis have often met with much skepticism (see Cropanzano & Wright, 2001; Davis-Blake & Pfeffer, 1989; Ledford, 1999; Organ, 1988a, for reviews).

There appear to be two primary explanations for this doubt. The ﬁrst involves the undeniable emphasis in the social and management sciences on the negative aspects of human endeavor, often to the neglect of the positive aspects of human nature. For example, Luthans (2002b), in a recent computer search of contemporary literature in psychology, found approxi- mately 375,000 articles on ‘‘negatives’’ illness, burnout, depression, fear, and anger), but only about 1,000 articles on positive-based concepts and capabilities of people (e.g., hope, ﬂourishing, enthusiasm). Amazingly, this constitutes a negative/positive publication ratio of 375/1! Obviously, a ratio this extreme in favor of negative-based articles is not solely the product of some chance event. This ratio is even more intriguing when one considers that over 50 years ago, Abraham Maslow (1954) entitled the last chapter of his seminal book, Motivation and Personality, ‘‘Toward a positive psychology.’’ In this last chapter, Maslow very carefully proposed a research agenda for future scholars designed to investigate such positive- based concepts as growth, optimism, spontaneity, kindness, and the actualization of potential.
