# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

all performance has an expected value of the mean (0 if expressed in standardized scores), expected performance levels should follow some sort of learning curve. General company information can provide further information, such as the probability of turnover for any given position.

As new information is acquired, the vectors can be updated and reﬁned, either based on company-speciﬁc investigations or from existing research. For example, once performance has been observed, subsequent expected performance levels and turnover probabilities can be updated. Information on job candidates, used in conjunction with the results of validation studies or existing research, can also reﬁne this information. As more information is collected, both within the company and from research advances, the quality of information contained in the matrix can be improved. The methods used to derive the necessary information will also advance as companies perform their own research (e.g., validation studies) and as new studies emerge with relevant ﬁndings.

The idea of building, reﬁning, and using performance vectors in human resource practice is new, and would certainly require new advances in methodology and decision making to implement successfully. First, tools would need to be developed that can combine information from a company’s human resource information system with varied and complex research ﬁndings. Second, methods for empirically reviewing existing research ﬁndings would need to be applicable to studying many variables simultaneously rather than a single relationship in isolation. Third, theory would need to provide speciﬁc information on functional forms rather than just general information on whether an effect is positive or not. Fourth, all of this information would need to be able to be combined to yield speciﬁc point estimates (of performance levels, the accuracy of for job applicants these estimates, and the likelihood of and incumbents. Finally, the methods used to derive these estimates would have to be capable of ‘‘learning’’ and updating these values as new data is acquired and new research ﬁndings emerge. In short, this is no small task.