data/clean/13__chunk1022.md, before:

# THOMAS A. WRIGHT AND RUSSELL CROPANZANO

moderating role of employee well-being on the job satisfaction–employee retention relationship.

Considered together, the available data point to a common conclusion: When happiness is operationalized as well-being, it is positively related to various measures of job performance and employee retention. For example, regarding job performance, ﬁeld research has consistently found signiﬁcant bivariate correlations between PWB and job performance ratings in the .30–.50 range, surpassing the typical results obtained for NA, PA, emotional exhaustion, and even job satisfaction (Wright, 2005). While less prevalent, research investigating the PWB and employee retention relationship is equally promising. These signiﬁcant ﬁndings have both theoretical and implications. As a practical case in point, taking a bivariate practical correlation of .30 between PWB and job performance/employee retention indicates that almost 10% of the variance in job performance/employee retention is associated with differences in PWB. Conversely, a correlation of .50 indicates that a substantial 25% of the variance in job performance/ employee retention is associated with differences in PWB. In addition, regarding job performance, this seems to be the case regardless of whether the criterion variables are objective indices or subjective ratings (Staw & Barsade, 1993; Staw et al., 1994).

The effect also holds in quasi-experimental, cross-sectional, and long- itudinal studies, even after controlling for the effects of possible confounding variables (e.g., Wright et al., 2002a, 2002b; Wright & Staw, 1999). Despite its value, this literature is in need of extension as, when all is said and done, the work to date has emphasized only the main effect relations among well-being, performance, and retention. In the next section, using theory (cf., Fredrickson, 1998, 2001) emanating from the various ‘‘positive’’ move- ments: positive psychology, positive organizational behavior (POB), and positive organizational scholarship (POS) (Cameron, Dutton, & Quinn, 2003; Diener, 2000; Luthans, 2002a, 2002b, 2003; Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi, 2000), we propose an innovative integration of the most promising (PWB) and widely used (job satisfaction) approaches to workplace happiness.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/13__chunk1022.md, after:

---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a86a3c1c2fb2a0562411b12f018234a5955d94ac
title: '13'
---
## The Happy/Productive Worker Thesis Revisited

measures of performance (Wright & Staw, 1999). Second, if halo were driving the results, Staw and Barsade (1993), in their laboratory study, would not have found signiﬁcant relations between their measure of well-being and objective measures of performance. Next, PWB has been related to job performance in a number of studies which have also examined a number of possible third variable explanations, including job satisfaction, PA, NA, and emotional exhaustion. If rating bias was accounting for the obtained relation between PWB and performance, then one must also reasonably expect signiﬁcant relations between these other variables and performance. As noted in previous reviews, while PWB is predictive of job performance, these other variables have not typically been related to performance (Wright, Cropanzano, & Meyer, 2004; Wright & Staw, 1999). Fourth, and ﬁnally, let’s consider the worse case scenario that halo does play a role in the relation between PWB and supervisory ratings of performance. Given that many organizations currently emphasize these non-task-speciﬁc performance dimensions in their appraisal process (Wright & Cropanzano, 1998), the relation is predictive of ‘‘success’’ from the employees’ point of view (Staw et al., 1994; Wright & Staw, 1999; Wright, 2005). In other words, in a number of the samples reported in this review, the employee received raises and promotions based upon these supervisory performance measures. We now turn our attention to the PWB with employee retention/withdrawal relationship.

Wright and Bonett (1992) found a pattern of results consistent with a proposed relationship between PWB and employee retention/withdrawal decisions. Using a longitudinal design, Wright and Bonett found that employees low in both job satisfaction and PWB were much less likely to stay on the job. In addition, those lowest in job satisfaction and PWB were most likely to, not only change their current job, but also their occupation as well. Unfortunately, Wright and Bonett failed to consider the possibility that PWB may moderate the job satisfaction–employee retention relation- ship. Using Weitz’s (1952) gripe index, Judge (1993) did test whether an employee’s [dis]satisfaction level would be more meaningful when con- sidered within the backdrop of their predisposition to be satisﬁed in general or psychologically well. According to Judge, employees dissatisﬁed with their jobs, but high on general life satisfaction, would be most likely to leave their current job. Judge found partial support for his contentions, with those employees exhibiting positive life satisfaction or well-being, but dissatisﬁed with their job, demonstrating the highest withdrawal, or lowest retention, rates. Unfortunately, outside of the work of Judge (1993) and Wright and Bonett (1992), empirical work is lacking which investigates the possible

287

288
