## Cognitive, Affective, and Cultural Inﬂuences on Stigmatization

Concealability. Some marks (e.g., religious beliefs, aberrant sexual proclivities) are more concealable than others (e.g., obesity, disﬁgurement). In general, the greater the visibility of a mark, the more negative will be the observer’s emotional reactions to it. The reason for this is obvious: to the degree that a stigma is hidden, it will not affect an observer’s inferences about the ASI of a target.

Combined Factors. Some types of stigmas have implications for multiple stigma dimensions. For example, prejudiced whites may view a black target as both unattractive and dangerous, even though his or her race is uncontrollable. Thus, research on multiple stigmas has implications for the effects of various dimensions on observers’ affective or emotional reactions. In this regard, the results of a study by Vanman et al. (1997) are worthy of note. They examined emotional reactions to stigmas using both self-reports of affect and physiological measures (e.g., derived from a facial EMG). Results showed that whereas whites reacted more positively to blacks than whites on self-report measures, the EMG measures showed the opposite pattern. This is an extremely important ﬁnding because it casts doubt on the validity of self-reports of affect in obtrusive research on various types of stigmas (see also Crosby et al., 1980; Stone et al., 1992).

Interestingly, Changes in Emotional Reactions Induced by Increased Contact. emotional reactions to some types of stigmas change as a function of increased levels of contact with a stigmatized target. For example, Blascovich et al. (2001) showed that whereas contact with a black (stigmatized) versus white (non-stigmatized) target led to a number of physiological and behavioral responses indicative of threat, increased contact tended to attenuate such responses. As noted below, this has implications for interventions aimed at reducing negative responses to stigmatized people (e.g., Fiske & Ruscher, 1993).

Moderating Effect of System Culture on Relation between Actual Social Identity and Cognitive Responses The SIO model posits that system culture moderates the relation between a target’s ASI and cognitive reactions to him or her (Arrow 13). In this regard, research supports the position that the cultural background of an observer moderates the relation between stereotypes of group members and the inferences made about them. For example, if the observer is a product of a collective culture, he or she is more likely to infer that a target’s behavior

139

140