## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

of missingness of Pt (i.e., the probability of not being able to observe job performance) depends on X (a predictor of job performance) but not after controlling for X. If this condition is not met (i.e., the probability that data is missing at time t depends on job performance at time t), then data is NMAR.

Because of the relationship between performance and turnover, MCAR is obviously not likely. Furthermore, if one were to observe a longitudinal sample of job performance where data was not missing, one would also have to question the generalizability of that data. Undoubtedly, one must consider whether data is MAR or NMAR. For data to be MAR, then the likelihood of missing data on Pt must only depend on characteristics from the prior time period(s) (X variables and/or P(t(cid:2)1)). For data to be NMAR, the likelihood of missing data on Pt depends on Pt. In many ways, by this deﬁnition, it seems that longitudinal performance data will be MAR. First, if someone is ﬁred because of low performance, then data on Pt is missing because of the value of Pt(cid:2)1. Similarly, if a high performer at Pt(cid:2)1 feels unrewarded and seeks new employment (i.e., leaves the company and is unobserved for Pt), then again missing data is MAR. On the other hand, the nature of performance measurement may cause data to be NMAR. For example, an employee may be performing badly during a given year (year t), and because of being self-aware of this performance, feedback from others, or being discharged, may leave the organization. Because supervisory ratings of the measure for performance at time t would not occur. Nonetheless, the data is missing in this situation speciﬁcally because of performance in time t. In such a case, data would be NMAR.

job performance are measured annually,

To date, no research has speciﬁcally considered the issue of missing data with respect to longitudinal studies of job performance. It is not clear if missing data should be treated MAR or MCAR. What is clear, however, is that most research on dynamic performance has not directly addressed issues relevant to missing data. Speciﬁcally, most studies give the issue very little consideration, instead simply use list-wise deletion to address the missing data problem. That is, previous studies examining employee performance levels over time have most frequently eliminated from the sample those employees who leave the job before the full length of data collection (e.g., Henry & Hulin, 1987; Ployhart & Hakel, 1998; Rambo et al., 1983, 1987; Rothe, 1978). When interested in only predicting data in the ﬁnal wave of a study (e.g., predicting performance in wave six of a six-wave study), then list- wise deletion does perform as well as other missing data techniques (Newman, 2003). However, when interested in predictors and information

91

92