---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7de6f23059b22748d47eacc549092a00b20cc7fb
title: '13'
---
## Cognitive, Affective, and Cultural Inﬂuences on Stigmatization

would be ostracized in many Native American tribes and Asian nations. In addition, whereas it is becoming increasingly common for women to hold managerial positions in U.S. organizations, the norms of several nations (e.g., Afghanistan) dictate that women should neither be provided with a formal education nor allowed to work outside the home, especially in jobs in which they have power over males.

In accordance with several of the above- Representative Research Support. noted points, research by Stephan et al. four psychological factors were related to the stigmatization of individuals (e.g., Mexicans, Cubans, Asians) who had immigrated to the U.S. More speciﬁcally, they were thought to (a) threaten the ingroup’s power and well- being, (b) challenge the ingroup’s worldview, (c) increase the anxiety resulting from contact with immigrants, and (d) elicit negative stereotypes of immigrants, providing a justiﬁcation for their subordination.

(1999) revealed that

Stigmatization Stigmatization is the process through which an observer, operating in a speciﬁc context: (a) identiﬁes a target’s actual or inferred attributes (ASI), (b) compares these attributes with his or conception of the ideal individual (VSI), and (c) infers that there is a negative, discrediting discrepancy between the two identities. As noted below, stigmatization is based on both the observer’s cognitions about the target and his or her emotional responses to the target. In addition, research shows that cognitions and emotions can affect one another. We consider this issue below.

At an intergroup level, stigmatization of outgroup members is a function of the ideologies (e.g., values, attitudes, preferences) of ingroup members. There is a consensus among ingroup members about the negative discrepancy between the VSIs and ASIs of outgroup members. As noted by Kurzban and Leary (2001, p. 199) ‘‘Not only do the members of a particular group mostly agree regarding who is and is not stigmatized, but they can typically articulate this shared belief.’’ It merits adding that beliefs about stigmas are often a direct result of the socialization experiences of individuals in speciﬁc cultures (Kurzban & Leary, 2001). The reason for this is that socialization serves as the basis for VSIs.

Cultural Factors Affecting Stigmatization in Organizations Our SIO model suggests that the cultures of both dominant and non- dominant groups inﬂuence the cultures of social systems. As noted above, the cultures of these groups inﬂuence the cultures of organizations (Arrows

127

128
