---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 32a73345287caa29132b54045b20117f7eaf49f4
title: '13'
---
# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

higher-order characteristics (e.g., job characteristics if studying employees in multiple jobs, organizational characteristic is studying employees from multiple organizations, and so on). Applications of HLM, though, have rarely gone beyond the second-level of analysis, and popular software like the ‘‘HLM’’ package only allow up to three-level models.

The primary advantages for using an HLM approach for modeling individual performance trends are that it does not require equal observa- tions per person, it does not require that the observations be spaced in the same way across subjects (Raudenbush, 2001; Raudenbush & Bryk, 2002), and there are well-articulated series of tests to determine the adequacy of using the full model (called the slopes-as-outcomes models, shown above as Eqs. (14) and (15)) (Deadrick et al., 1997; Hofmann, 1997; Raudenbush, 2001; Raudenbush & Bryk, 2002). The primary disadvantage of HLM is that it places a number of restrictions on how the data is modeled (Raudenbush, 2001). Speciﬁcally, the nature of the error structures is ﬁxed, impossible to model alternative error structures such as making it autocorrelation. HLM approaches have nonetheless proven to be a useful means for helping understand the nature of job performance over time (e.g., Deadrick et al., 1997; Hofmann et al., 1993; Sturman & Trevor, 2001).

Latent Growth Curve Modeling LGCM provides another means for modeling development, represented as different latent factors which capture the growth function. The LGCM approach involves testing the effect of latent constructs representing the growth parameters that deﬁne the shape of the performance function over time. At its simplest, the model includes an intercept and a linear construct. With sufﬁcient the model can be expanded to include quadratic, cubic, or higher order functions if desired.

information,

Like HLM, LGCM requires restrictions of the GLMM. Whereas HLM required restrictions with regard to how error and covariates are modeled, LGCM has restrictions on the structure of the data to be analyzed. When using a structural equations approach (SEM) to modeling, a key constraint is that the covariance matrices of within subjects errors must be the same for each individual (Raudenbush, 2001). Expressed mathematically (and referring back to Eq. (13)), Wi=W. Note that this is not a limitation of SEM software, but is an inherent characteristic to the method (Raudenbush, 2001). It is this this constraint assumption requires that when performing LGCM there are the same number of observations per individual. It also requires that all the observations be spaced at the same temporal intervals. If the number of

that most differentiates LGCM from HLM. That

is,
