# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

Based on current theoretical applications of attraction-selection-attrition theory or social identity theory, researchers would surmise that race or gender diversity would manifest in similar organizational outcomes. Yet, why does racial diversity emerge as a signiﬁcant predictor of negative outcomes while gender diversity is either non-signiﬁcant or positively associated with group process outcomes? Researchers have proposed various answers to this question. Kochan et al. (2003) concluded that gender diversity is less problematic than race diversity because white women tend to have better representation in organizations than minority men or women. The positive effects of gender diversity reﬂected more conducive relationships between white men and women in gender balanced groups. In a similar vein, Kirkman et al. (2004) explained their non-signiﬁcant ﬁndings for gender diversity and negative outcomes for racial diversity by noting that there is relatively less gender bias than racial bias in companies. These explanations offer preliminary leads, but also beg a fuller inquiry in teams. into the boundary conditions shaping diversity dynamics A contextualized response to the question posed above would draw attention to organizational and even extra-organizational factors that may shape the outcomes of gender and racial diversity. Such a response would draw attention to speciﬁc socio-political trends in the US workplace that might shape race and gender-based diversity dynamics differentially. Indeed, some researchers have argued that gender discrimination has become more insidious rather than overt, but is certainly alive and well in the US workplace (see Meyerson & Fletcher, 2000). At the same time, recent developments in immigration laws and media attention on immigration issues may trigger race or ethnicity-based identities in the workplace and manifest in the salience of race or ethnic diversity relative to gender diversity in teams. Thus, societal level history, culture, or legal developments as well as organizational level structures, strategy, and practices could trigger a series of effects that could trickle down into the diversity dynamics within work groups and have implications for research ﬁndings. Cumulatively, these contextual considerations might lead researchers to very different conclusions than arguments borne out of various theoretical perspectives applied in current research.

This paper delves deeper into the contextual considerations highlighted above. In the next section, we discuss in detail how diversity context may be conceptualized, outline various aspects of this context at various levels, and present the implications of these contextual factors for the outcomes of work team diversity. Next, we present the ﬁndings from a review of ﬁeld research conducted between 1999 through 2006. We identify speciﬁc trends