---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 60e4e12f0be772b7439a9b83e9d7ace3044e100a
title: '13'
---
## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

understand why this might be the case. A basic tenet of incongruity theory is that in order for humor to be experienced as funny, the audience and humor producer must share the same expectation systems elicited by the joke’s context. If they do not, then the joke’s attempted incongruity will be meaningless. For example, while the ‘prison’ expectation system elicited in the joke reproduced above might be fairly universal (for all but the most primitive societies), the workplace expectation system that we take for granted in the U.S. (and is so cleverly leveraged in the ‘‘Dilbert’’ comics of Scott Adams) is probably only relevant in developed economies with substantial numbers of service sector workers in ofﬁce environments. Without a schema for cubicle-based work, one can not resolve the incongruity established explicitly by saying that prison is better than work. Individuals in developing countries might understand all the words, but not really ‘‘get the joke.’’ Similarly, if the humor being interpreted is very difﬁcult to understand, or the audience has to ‘‘work too hard’’ to get the joke, it will not be perceived as very humorous. Wyer and Collins (1992) suggest that this is a function of the fact that if the audience to humor must spend all of their cognitive resources simply trying to understand the joke by resolving or linking its inherent incongruities (high comprehension difﬁculty), they will have no opportunity to engage in the cognitive elaboration associated with perceiving humor.

Cultural differences in information processing goals are also a potential problem for appreciating humor that is produced in a different culture than one’s own. Differences in information processing goals occur not because of difﬁculty with humor content, but because cultures might differ consider- ably in their norms about which contexts are appropriate for the use of humor. That is, cultures prescribe which contexts are to be evaluated in terms of a ‘‘play frame’’ (Caron, 2002) which makes individuals sensitive to incongruities and their potential resolution. Many ‘‘play frames’’ might be similar across cultures. For example, comedic movies or plays are likely to put people from most cultures into a play frame where the information processing goal is to look for and attempt to resolve and elaborate on incongruities. Research by many authors over a number of decades (e.g., Bradney, 1957; Holmes & Marra, 2002b; Ullian, 1976) suggests that joking with equal status coworkers at work or outside work might be a common, if not universal, play context.

However, like Albert Brooks’ character, people with experience interact- ing with individuals from different cultures will often tell tales of awkward, confusing, or frustrating interactions in which humor ‘‘missed its mark.’’ The underlying cause of such humor blunders might often be traced to

243

244
