---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 62644f4b699d51233ffead07ebb66c80fceadecb
title: '13'
---
## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

typically applied in the organizational literature. With the exception of a handful of studies which demonstrated that humor inﬂuences ratings of interpersonal attraction (e.g., Murstein & Brust, 1985; Cann, Calhoun, & Banks, 1997), most of the studies conducted over the last four decades that have concluded that humor is used to build cohesiveness in organizational contexts have relied upon some form of qualitative judgment on the part of the researchers to reach that conclusion.

For example, using a participant–observer methodology, Ullian (1976) coded joking interactions systematically along a number of dimensions (e.g., time, location, context, and target). After evaluating a small number of interactions, he concluded that joking was often used when a worker introduced potentially threatening new information to other workers. Similarly, Vinton (1989) and Consalvo (1989) also used a participant– observer methodology. Consalvo (1989), who described his study as ‘‘largely descriptive’’ (p. 286), evaluated taped interactions from 22 managerial meetings. He observed that the use of humor occurred in predictable phases that helped groups bond by helping them cope with initial disagreement and conﬂict. Vinton (1989) collected data with ﬁeld notes, and used the ‘‘constant comparative method’’ to categorize types of humor. She concluded that humor is used for many speciﬁc purposes, but ultimately serves to ‘‘create bonds among the employees’’ (p. 165). Fine and De Soucey (2005) conducted ethnographic studies of mushroom collectors and meteorologists, and concluded that patterns of joking behavior, particularly those that were repeated over time, helped create cohesiveness by smoothing interaction, creating a shared collective identity, and distinguishing the group from others. Holmes and colleagues (e.g., Holmes, 2000; Holmes & Marra, 2002a, 2002b ; Holmes, Marra, & Burns, 2001) have conducted a number of studies using qualitative linguistic analysis of tape-recorded interactions with various groups, and have also concluded that one of the major functions of humor is to smooth social interactions and maintain cohesiveness and solidarity.

The fact that most of the studies that have shown a relationship between humor and cohesiveness are qualitative and required substantial researcher judgment by no means implies that their conclusions were wrong. Indeed, indirect evidence for an effect of humor on cohesiveness comes from a number of sources. One source of this evidence is research that has examined the role of humor on conﬂict behavior. For example, in a laboratory study on the use of humor in negotiation, O’Quin and Aronoff (1981) found that subjects who were presented with a demand that was accompanied by humor made greater concessions than subjects who received the demand only. In addition, although their results did not suggest that subjects in the humor

229

230
