## Toward a Theory of Reputation in Organizations

According to Festinger (1954), a unidirectional drive upward is a desire by individuals to be slightly better then those with whom they compare themselves. This drive can ‘‘y be viewed as an indication of the desire to change one’s position relative to others’’ (p. 127). In order to effectively fulﬁll the goal of changing one’s position in an organization, an individual will assess the referent ‘‘self’’ as well as the ‘‘system.’’ This assessment of self (Goodman, 1974) will consider the current standing the individual has in the company, compared with the reputational goals or aspirations of the focal individual. It will evaluate inputs and outputs of both positions, determining the discrepancies that need to be addressed.

The assessment of the ‘‘system’’ referent will help deﬁne the path reputation-building individuals must take in order to achieve their goals. The system referent refers to the structural aspects of the organization; for example, contractual agreements that the organization will provide for levels of power attained (March & Simon, 1958). Whereas these inputs and outcomes traditionally have been considered to be tied to formal positions and power, it can be assumed that in today’s organizations, more informal power also could be tied to such positions. Based on the information gained by observing ‘‘system’’ as well as informal norms, individuals building reputations will attempt to deliver their message through actions that are intended to be received and interpreted by a speciﬁc audience (Elmer, 1984; Reicher & Elmer, 1988).

As mentioned earlier, time also has been suggested as an aspect of social comparison, whereby the past, present, and future may all cross, and create different combinations of, the referent categories. For example, anticipated self-future relates to reputation, where self-future is a comparison of the current self against the expected future self (Oldham, Kulik, Ambrose, Stepina, & Brand, 1986). This future self will reﬂect the goals toward which the present self is currently striving.

In order for individuals to achieve these goals (i.e., and become the future- self), they will ﬁnd individuals (or groups) who have already achieved the goals, and model the aspects of their behavior after those of the referents they believe are responsible for the desired attributes (Schunk, 1987), within the context of the system. The individuals who are models or referents often are considered to be ‘‘standard setters’’ (Feldman & Ruble, 1981). That is, such ‘‘standard setters’’ help deﬁne the inputs and outputs for their level of achievement, and they often are individuals of extremely high ability. Therefore, to use them as a referent for upward social comparison is appropriate. Due to the complex nature of reputation, the referent selection process involves the self (i.e., comparing the present with future), other

175

176

ROBERT ZINKO ET AL.

(i.e., comparing the self with a model or standard setter in an effort to deﬁne the behaviors that would grand the desired rewards), and the system that grants the rewards for speciﬁc behaviors.

Behavioral Norms Norms for individual behavior largely are deﬁned by an individual’s role within a context of the network. As individuals interact with others, a network of roles and their attending behavioral expectations, known as a role-set, is established. These role-sets are laden with certain prescriptions for expected behavior (Merton, 1968; Katz & Kahn, 1978; Tsui, 1984).

Organizations can be characterized as collections of roles organized to meet some demand for goods or services, and to serve the needs of the individuals that make up the organizations (Friedkin, 1998; Katz & Kahn, 1978; Merton, 1968; Tsui, Egan, & O’Reilly, 1992). These roles are deﬁned by the nature of the goods and services produced, as well as the organization level in which the roles reside. Tsui (1984) argued that the effectiveness of managers (i.e., as analyzed from their role set and the expectations of peers, superiors, and subordinates) is grounded in their self-interests, and their ability to satisfy their multiple (and often quite different) constituencies. As individuals deviate from these norms, others take notice (Elmer, 1984), and tend to reevaluate the individual based on the expected actions of the individual versus actual events (Weick, 1979).

Human Capital Human capital theory argues that individuals generate increased worth or value for themselves by acquiring knowledge, skills, and credentials through educational and experiential attainments. Attainment of additional educational degrees contributes to the value of one’s human capital, as does the prestige of the institutions from which the degrees were granted. Job knowledge and experience also build human capital, as do the skills one acquires through training. So, human capital is the knowledge and skill that an individual possesses, which are the direct result of their investments in education and training (Becker, 1993). Studies have indicated that factors such as age, race, and gender can affect the return on investments made in human capital.

As a component of reputation, human capital represents investments made by individuals to enhance their public image. In the form of credentials, human capital provides instant creditability and status for the holders, sending signals to others based on individual attributes they possess (Spence, 1973). Similarly, certain characteristics make individuals more marketable and mobile (Trevor, 2001).