---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8e71b9e6f7c9e40910619b0188a6984bef6b3f52
title: '13'
---
## Contextual Explanations for the Negative Outcomes of Diversity

Researchers have considered conﬂict and lack of cohesion or cooperation as the negative outcomes of diversity (Williams & O’Reilly, 1998; Van Knippenberg & Schippers, 2007). Several aspects of the diversity context considered earlier can also serve to exacerbate these negative outcomes of diversity. At the distal omnibus level, aspects of cyclical time such as socio- economic trends could serve to highlight perceptions regarding availability of public resources and increase inter-group competition over perceived or real scarcity. As we discussed earlier, trends such as the aging workforce or increasing levels of immigration could enhance these negative perceptions. At the proximal omnibus level, organizational demography as well as culture could also exacerbate negative outcomes. Research on orga- nizational demography suggests in demographically segregated that organizations characterized by the presence of minorities at lower levels and a token presence in upper management, out-group salience and in- group solidarity may be enhanced (Ashforth & Mael, 1989; Cox, 1993; Joshi, 2006). Majority members may view minorities as a threat to the status quo (Ashforth & Mael, 1989). At the same time minority members may also mobilize collective action that can increase inter-group conﬂict (Cox, 1993). Even in organizations that have incorporated diversity management practices over several years, differing perceptions of these diversity practices by majority and minority groups may induce negative outcomes in teams. In a detailed analysis of a corporation with a history of progressive actions in promoting race relations, Alderfer, Tucker, Morgan, and Drasgow (1983) examined the manner in which black and white managers viewed race relations programs varied. They found that blacks viewed progressive policies as efforts to rectify white advantage with no speciﬁc losses to whites. White employees, on the other hand, viewed these efforts as resource reallocation that inherently implied loss of privilege and greater competition over scarce organizational resources. These ﬁndings suggest that an organization’s history with implementing diversity practices may serve to exacerbate conﬂict between racial groups and have implications for work group diversity. Overall, organizational factors, such as demography, culture/climate, or history with diversity-related issues could amplify negative outcomes.

At the discrete level, task characteristics that enhance time and resource pressures on team members may also serve to enhance negative outcomes of conﬂict. Recent meta-analytic ﬁndings suggest that higher levels of task complexity enhanced the negative correlation between diversity and performance (De Dreu & Weingart, 2003). The increased difﬁculties with

37

38
