---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c79c1b3d8aeb4becb46111ffb064db57e5587df6
title: '13'
---
## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

complex technical information), a more central processing route and deeper processing will likely lead to more effective learning.

Humor and Selection/Recruiting

Humor’s presumed effects on performance-related outcomes, creativity, and ‘‘how can we harness those effects in cohesiveness beg the question: organizations?’’ One route is to do things to increase the amount of humor in the organization. Humor consultants suggest things like putting up humor bulletin boards, having humor breaks during meetings, and sponsoring joke contests (Therrien, 2004). Organizations that are successful at creating a culture of humor do things like create humor rooms (Kodak), put together ‘‘joy gangs’’ (Ben & Jerry’s), or have their CEO ride into an employee meeting on a motorcycle (Southwest Airlines) (Caudron, 1992). These types of speciﬁc ideas might be effective. However, an additional and perhaps complementary strategy might be to recruit and select employees for their sense of humor. Indeed, a consideration of humor’s effects is not very meaningful if an organization does not include individuals who will produce humor and individuals who will appreciate humor.

A recruitment/selection perspective on humor in organizations is rife with interesting questions for researchers. One important issue is determining how important it is for leaders (e.g., managers, supervisors) to have a good sense of humor. We speculate that a good sense of humor might be particularly important for leaders for two reasons. First, leaders set the tone regarding the acceptability of humor expression in the workplace. If leaders are intolerant of playful behavior (e.g., telling jokes, making funny comments), or other expressions of humor (e.g., the posting of cartoons), this will stiﬂe potential humor production among their subordinates. Second, important aspects of leaders’ roles include communicating sensitive information (e.g., performance feedback) and maintaining cohesiveness and collegiality among subordinates. As we argued earlier, both of these roles can be supported by effective use of humor, and therefore, leaders with a sense of humor have additional tools for doing their jobs.

A second research question involves the issue of identifying the relative importance of humor production or appreciation as components of sense of humor. Although humor production and appreciation seem to be correlated (Ziv, 1988), any given individual might score higher on one than the other. Clearly, humor has to come from somewhere, so having some individuals who are high in humor production seems necessary for the initiation of any

253

254
