# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

Kirkman, B. L., Tesluk, P. E., & Rosen, B. (2004). The impact of demographic heterogeneity and team leader-team member demographic ﬁt on team empowerment and effectiveness. Group and Organization Management, 29, 334–368.

Kochan, T., Bezrukova, K., Ely, R., Jackson, S., Joshi, A., Jehn, K., et al. (2003). The effects of diversity on business performance: Report of the diversity research network. Human Resource Management, 42, 3–21.

Lawrence, B. S. (1997). The black box of organizational demography. Organization Science, 8,

1–22.

Leonard, J. S., Levine, D. I., & Joshi, A. (2004). Do birds of a feather shop together? The effects on performance of employees’ similarity with one another and with customers. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 25, 731–754.

LePine, J. A., Hanson, M. A., Borman, W. C., & Motowidlo, S. J. (2000). Contextual performance and teamwork: Implications for stafﬁng. In: G. R. Ferris & K. M. Rowland (Eds), Research in personnel and human resources management (Vol.19, pp. 53–90). Greenwich, CT: JAI Press.

Martins, L. L., Miliken, F. J., Wiesenfeld, B. M., & Salgado, S. R. (2003). Racioethnic diversity and group member’s experience. Group and Organization Management, 28, 75–106.

Martocchio, J. J., Harrison, D. A., & Berkson, H. (2000). Connections between lower back pain, interventions, and absence from work: A time-based meta-analysis. Personnel Psychology, 53, 595–624.

Meindl, J. R., Hunt, R. G., & Lee, W. (1989). Individualism-collectivism and work values: Data from the United States, China, Taiwan, Korea, and Hong Kong. In: G. R. Ferris & K. M. Rowland (Eds), Research in personnel and human resources management (Suppl. 1, pp. 59–77). Greenwich, CT: JAI Press.

Meyerson, D. E., & Fletcher, J. K. (2000). A modest manifesto for shattering the glass ceiling.