# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

institutionalization of gender inequality in the founding ﬁrms (Phillips, 2005). Thus, organizational history can be viewed as a replication of routines across generations of employees and extent to which organizational founders focused on rectifying inequality and discrimination may be replicated across generations of employees. In organizations where historically women and minorities have had a voice and access to resources, gender or race-based diversity may have more positive outcomes in comparison with organizations where women and minorities have historically been in subordinate positions. From an institutional perspective, in organizations where historically women and minorities have held leadership positions, their equal status in the organization is legitimized; these organizations may also be able to mine the value of diversity within the work group more effectively (Ridgeway, 1997). These perspectives suggest that organizational history with diversity-related issues may shed light on the speciﬁc dynamics of diversity within work groups and merit closer attention in future research.

Organizational Culture Like organizational history, organizational culture also sends signals regarding the organization’s approach to diversity. Organizational culture is deﬁned as the shared values, beliefs, expectations, and norms prevalent in an organization and manifests itself in organizational rituals, practices, and managerial behavior (Cox, 1993; Schneider, 2000). Cox (1993) discusses the role of two aspects of organizational culture that can shape the employee behavior and employment outcomes – culture strength and culture content. Culture strength refers to the extent to which organizational norms and values are explicit and enforced. Organizations with strong cultures are characterized by uniform expectations and responses. In organizations with weak cultures, there is less agreement about appropriate behaviors and that diversity management practices are expectations. To the extent supported by a strong organizational culture, they are more likely to be implemented successfully in organizations (Cox, 1993).

Organizational culture content refers to the speciﬁc norms, values, and beliefs that are prevalent in organizations (Cox, 1993). Chatman and colleagues have examined the extent to which individualistic versus collectivistic organizations shape the outcomes of diversity in work groups. Chatman and Spataro (2005) argued that work group processes would be shaped by the extent to which organizations emphasize independence versus interdependence. In organizations that emphasize independence, demo- graphic dissimilarity to the work group is more likely to be negatively associated with work group cooperation. In more collectivistic settings,