# INTRODUCTION

In the last three decades, there has been a growing acceptance of the use of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) procedures in lieu of litigation for business and other types of disputes (Coltri, 2004), as well as intra- organizational disputes (Brown, 1983). With this acceptance have come a wide variety of third party ADR procedures: some of these are traditional and commonly used for business disputes and labor–management relations; others are novel and tend to be used for speciﬁc types of disputes (e.g., insurance claims disputes). In some contexts, case intake ofﬁcials or the disputants themselves may have a variety of ADR procedural choices at their disposal to resolve a conﬂict (Edelman, 1984). As the ﬁeld of ADR has evolved into a plethora of options for parties in dispute, the ability of researchers, policy makers, and consumers to distinguish between, evaluate, and ultimately choose between various third party procedures becomes not only increasingly important, but is also increasingly complex.

This variation in third party procedures becomes even more complex when one goes beyond the organizational setting of dispute resolution to consider the inﬂuence of culture and cultural context on ADR procedural preferences (Diamant, 2000; Sacks, Reichert, & Profﬁtt, 1999). The inﬂuence of culture in disputes is no longer an issue solely relevant to global business people who travel to and set up contracts in other countries. The business and organizational environments in which we ﬁnd ourselves today are often cross-cultural or global in their nature, even for individuals who might not actually cross cultural boundaries physically. For example, an E-bay seller sitting at home in the USA might be drawn into a dispute by an E-bay buyer located in Europe, India, or Australia, with the initial choice of procedure and type of third party potentially impacting the speed and success of the resolution. Given that dispute resolution procedures are embedded within culture (Brett, 2001), the reality of our global world requires that we begin to systematically explore how ADR procedures and their associated criteria apply across cultures and cultural boundaries. We argue that the assumptions for procedural recommendations from culturally bound research about how disputes should be settled may not hold across cultural context.

Different cultures have characteristic proﬁles that are manifested in norms, values, assumptions, institutions, and systems (Lytle, Brett, Barsness, Tinsley, & Janssens, 1995). In this paper, we focus on selected cultural dimensions that have been commonly used in previous research, such as individualism vs. collectivism (Hofstede, 1980; Schwartz, 1994; Triandis, 1995) and power distance or egalitarianism vs. hierarchy (Hofstede, 1980;