---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 419e2d4cd2840e3c79192b7eb87a68db8c8b209c
title: '13'
---
## community. Journal of Applied Psychology, 82, 30–43.

Salamin, A., & Hom, P. W. (2005). In search of the elusive U-shaped performance-turnover relationship: Are high performing Swiss bankers more liable to quit? Journal of Applied Psychology, 90, 1204–1216.

Salthouse, T. (1979). Adult age and speed accuracy trade-off. Ergonomics, 22, 811–821. Sayer, A. G., & Cumsille, P. W. (2001). Second-order latent growth models. In: L. M. Collins & A. G. Sayer (Eds), New methods for the analysis of change (pp. 179–200). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Schaie, K. W. (1994). The course of adult intellectual development. American Psychologist, 49,

304–313.

Schmidt, F. L., & Hunter, J. E. (1998). The validity and utility of selection methods in personnel psychology: Practical and theoretical implications of 85 years of research ﬁndings. Psychological Bulletin, 124, 262–274.

Schmidt, F. L., Hunter, J. E., & Outerbridge, A. (1986). The impact of job experience and ability on job knowledge work sample performance, and supervisory rating of performance. Journal of Applied Psychology, 71, 432–439.

Schmidt, F. L., & Kaplan, L. B. (1971). Compositive vs. multiple criteria: A review and

resolution of the controversy. Personnel Psychology, 24, 419–434.

Schmitt, N., Gooding, R. Z., Noe, R. A., & Kirsch, M. (1984). Meta-analyses of validity studies published between 1964 and 1982 and the investigation of study characteristics. Personnel Psychology, 37, 407–422.

Schneider, B. (1987). The people make the place. Personnel Psychology, 40, 437–453. Smith, C. (1981). Effect of production rate on weapon system cost. Concepts: The Journal of
