---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e5b3ffd39d946f215d824902d2deabb819787257
title: '13'
---
# SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION

In our discussion, we have discussed a number of third party ADR procedures and have applied four categories of criteria drawn from the literature that are useful for comparing third party procedures: process- related, settlement-related, issue-related, and relationship-related criteria (e.g., Lissak & Sheppard, 1983; Sheppard, 1983, 1984). We have offered ideas about how these criteria might be perceived differentially across cultures, emphasizing that Western research ﬁndings about procedural preferences do not necessarily generalize to other cultural contexts.

Many different dispute resolution procedures exist within each culture and are used for different situations (Brett, 2001; Tinsley, 1998, 2001), procedures that ‘‘ﬁt’’ a particular culture’s set of values, norms, systems, and beliefs are likely to be preferable to those that do not. While we realize that there are many unique combinations of cultural dimensions that drive potential differences in procedural choice, we have sought to identify only two major groups of cultures (egalitarian/individualistic cultures with direct commu- nication and hierarchical/collectivist cultures with indirect communication) and explore how procedural choices might differ and make suggestions for future research. We have limited our discussion for a number of reasons. Firstly, these two major groups because we consider these to provide the greatest contrast for ADR procedures among cultural dimensions that are currently understood from a theoretical perspective as well as from an empirical base. Secondly, from a global population perspective, these two cultural groups encompass, generally speaking, a large proportion of the world’s citizens. Lastly, in the spirit of disclosure, these are the two cultural groups with which we are most familiar. By no means should this discussion be considered to be exhaustive of the world’s great variety of cultures. Likewise, this discussion should not be viewed as a comprehensive treatment of third party procedures, evaluation criteria, and the moderating effect of culture. In the interest of parsimony, we have economized where we thought appropriate while retaining sufﬁciently rich detail to provide the reader with an appreciation of the complexity inherent to the domain we have delimited. In this article we have reviewed and summarized a suite of ADR procedures. We have examined various criteria for evaluating those procedures. One important contribution we have made is to discuss the moderating role of culture in the application and enactment of ADR procedures as well as the criteria for evaluating the effectiveness of their use. We caution the reader to view culture in both a broad and narrow sense. In a broad sense, national or ethnic culture can render manifestations of

341

342

DONALD E. CONLON ET AL.

individual and societal values, beliefs, norms, and behavior which differ signiﬁcantly across large collectives of individuals who share a common origin or background. In the narrow sense, within a collective of individuals with a common national or ethnic background, there is wide scope for local variation – values, beliefs, norms, and behavior may signiﬁcantly differ across regions, language or dialect groups, ﬁrms, communities, families, and individuals. Even within the same local group, these factors can change – a collective or individual can experience variation over time and context in the salience of particular dimensions of cultural values. For example, in times of prosperity and harmony, some dimensions of the culture may be more prominent than others for a community, whereas in times hardship and discord other dimensions are rendered more meaningful.

The meta-themes from this article should be evident to the reader by now: research which is culturally bounded is inherently ethnocentric, and potentially disregards important local factors leading to false assumptions; in naı¨ve transferal of ADR procedures across cultures can result misapplication, and misappraisal of effectiveness of a given third party procedure; criteria for characterizing or evaluating third party procedures should be carefully and skillfully utilized with a cogent understanding of the implication of cultural values.

In short, the assumption that there exists a universal formula for selecting and evaluating third party ADR procedures can at best lead to wasted efforts in a futile search, and at worst can lead to misguided attempts to address conﬂict among disputants resulting in deleterious outcomes. This is not to say that we should be paralyzed in our attempts to disseminate third party procedures. Rather we encourage practitioners and researchers alike to test the assumptions underlying their conceptual and theoretical models of ADR procedures as they foray into cultures with which they are unfamiliar. In this way we will learn (often through trial and error), some universals, some non- universals, and some general heuristics for incorporating moderating effects. Let us keep in mind that, at least at this stage in our understanding of third party procedures, there still exists no ‘‘one best choice’’.
