# allocation of outcomes

Just World. Many people in the U.S. subscribe to the ‘‘just world’’ belief (Lerner, 1980). More speciﬁcally, they believe that good things happen to good people and bad things happen to bad people. In accordance with this view, suffering is typically viewed as a byproduct of an individual’s own actions (Lerner, 1980). Thus, observers regard many stigmatized individuals (e.g., the disabled) as undeserving of the beneﬁts accorded others in work organizations and other types of social systems (Colella & Stone, 2005; Stone & Colella, 1996).

Standardized Policies and Procedures. Consistent with beliefs in equity, and no doubt a consequence of the endorsement of bureaucracy theory- based views of organizations, a commonly held view in U.S. organizations is that individuals should be treated in accordance with standardized policies and procedures (Katz & Kahn, 1978; March & Simon, 1958; Stone & Stone-Romero, 2004; Weber, 1958). As a result, the norm is that people should not be afforded special treatment because it might give them an unwarranted competitive advantage over others (Colella, 2001; Colella & Stone, 2005; Stone & Colella, 1996). Consistent with this norm, individuals who are viewed as being parasitic (e.g., individuals with disabilities) are avoided or rejected by others (Kurzban & Leary, 2001).

In the U.S., individuals who manifest such attributes as youth, Fitness. attractiveness, physical ﬁtness and endurance, heterosexuality, and mental health are more valued and have higher status than people who are viewed as being deﬁcient in terms of the same attributes. In addition, the ﬁt are viewed as more deserving of positive outcomes than the unﬁt (Kurzban &