## (e) Negative interdependence perspective.

The above-described negative interdependence views of Fiske and Ruscher (1993) are generally consistent with the social structure perspective. Recall, they argued that negative emotions stem from the real or imagined threats that outgroup members pose to the welfare of ingroup members.

Convergence of Perspectives. A consideration of the just-noted perspectives on emotional reactions to stigmatized individuals reveals that they are generally quite compatible with one another. For example, both the evolutionary perspective and the social structure perspective suggest similar behavioral and emotional responses to ‘‘parasites.’’ In addition, both the evolutionary and the cognitive appraisal perspectives indicate why negative emotions will be elicited by individuals who are viewed as carriers of pathogens. Moreover, the evolutionary and social structure views make similar predictions about the emotions evoked by outgroups that are low in both competence and warmth. More speciﬁcally, both suggest that they will be exploited by ingroup members and will arouse such emotions as disgust and contempt. These emotions make it easier for ingroup members (e.g., MWASPs) to dominate and exploit outgroup members (e.g., blacks, Mexican Americans, American Indians) in order to improve the welfare of the ingroup.

What the above suggests quite clearly is that the emotional reactions that are elicited by individuals (e.g., job applicants and job incumbents) can have a powerful effect on a number of HRM processes and practices. For example, to the degree that a white female manager feels threatened by a black male job applicant, he or she will not be likely to recommend that the applicant be hired.

135

136