---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: dd9ebe3e6d08d99fb2a053911fdfea5baba10dc4
title: '13'
---
## Third Party Interventions across Cultures

incentive to offer something just slightly more reasonable than the other side so that their position may ‘‘win’’ in the eyes of the arbitrator. Such motivation also does not promote integrative ‘‘win-win’’ agreements.

Culture complicates the desire for integrative outcomes as well, because in traditional negotiation and dispute resolution research, integration is judged solely by the individual interests of those directly involved in the dispute, and the maximization of individual interests is considered an important and valid pursuit (Brett, 2001). It is difﬁcult if not impossible to judge the level of integration with broader community or organizational interests, which in some cases may not directly involve the individual level interests in any individual dispute. In collectivist cultures, the primary concern may be a less deﬁnable set of collective interests that is not easily ‘‘integrated’’ by the sharing of disputant’s individual level interests, and measurement may be further complicated by the potential difference between short term maximization of interests and longer term welfare of a greater collective (Tinsley, 1997, 2001). Furthermore, there may be a desire to maintain social harmony and therefore not actually engage in a detailed, potentially confrontational process to elicit individual interests and then continue to search for integration. In this case, social harmony is the greater level interest that is maximized rather than the individual level interests.

One would expect that integration of individual level interests would be desirable in low power distance or egalitarian cultures, where there is an underlying assumption that interests are all equally important and legitimate as a basis for resolution (Tinsley, 2004). But, in cultures where there are established hierarchies and the distribution of resources is not expected to be equal, there may be no overt objective to maximize the welfare of the lower status individual in the conﬂict. This is because a lower status individual’s interests may be considered less important, and therefore not to be taken into consideration equally with interests of a higher status individual.
