## Cognitive, Affective, and Cultural Inﬂuences on Stigmatization

1998; Stone-Romero et al., 2003; Trice & Beyer, 1993). This is an extremely important point because ideologies, serve a number of purposes, including providing views on (i.e., prototypes of) the nature of ideal job applicants and/or job incumbents. The same prototypes serve as the basis for the stigmatization of individuals whose characteristics are negatively discrepant from these ideals. We offer several examples of this below.

Rationality in Decision-Making and Other Processes. U.S. organizations often emphasize rationality and depersonalization in decision-making, including decisions about the hiring of workers (Cascio & Aguinis, 2005; Gatewood & Field, 2001; March & Simon, 1958; Trice & Beyer, 1993; Weber, 1958). As a result, they tend to have formal rules and procedures designed to (a) avoiding favoritism or partiality (e.g., considering personal needs of employees), and (b) separate the job or role from the job holder (Weber, 1958). For example, personnel selection decisions are often based on data derived from various types of standardized tests (e.g., cognitive ability, personality, work samples). Moreover, as a result of the norm to be rational, workers who appear to be ‘‘too emotional’’ are often viewed negatively in organizations. Thus, for instance, they are screened out during the selection process on the basis of their standing on measures of emotional stability (Stone-Romero, 2005).

Competitive Achievement. U.S. organizations tend to stress competitive achievement among workers and an intolerance of poor performance (Trice & Beyer, 1993). In addition, an emphasis is placed on hiring individuals with high levels of ability and motivation who will help the organization gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. As a result, many individuals with race or ethnicity-related stigmas (e.g., blacks, Latinos, American Indians) are viewed as having lesser potential to meet role expectations than are most whites (Stone et al., 1992). As a result, many tests used in personnel selection result in considerable adverse impact against members of minority groups (Hough, Oswald, & Ployhart, 2001; Schmitt, Rogers, Chan, Sheppard, & Jennings, 1997).

Individualism and Self-Reliance. As a result of the value placed on individualism and self-reliance in the U.S. (Hofstede, 1980, 1991), workers are expected to be proactive and to do their work with little or no assistance from others (Stone-Romero & Stone, in press; Trice & Beyer, 1993). In this regard, Hsu (1961) argued that self-reliance is so highly valued in the U.S. that individuals who are viewed as bearing the stigma of not being

121

122