---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 790a947b015f02c787d640f625ade4c9f993d0b4
title: '13'
---
## The Happy/Productive Worker Thesis Revisited

In their meta-analysis, Judge and his colleagues reported the job satisfaction–job performance association to be roughly +.30, though they observed some important moderators. For example, they determined that some job satisfaction measures were more closely correlated to performance than others, ranging from an aggregated correlation of +.06 for research measuring job satisfaction with the GM Faces Scale to an aggregated correlation of +.51 for research using the Hoppock Job Satisfaction Blank to measure job satisfaction. Judge et al. also reported considerable differences across occupations, with the job satisfaction/job performance correlation being more robust in high-complexity jobs. In conclusion, their meta-analytic results found that measures of overall global job satisfaction exhibit higher correlations than facet measures of job satisfaction.

The positive associations obtained by Judge et al. (2001) and Petty et al. (1984) do not address the issue of causality, however. As noted by Wright (2005), there are three primary causal relations between job satisfaction and job performance: (a) job satisfaction may cause job performance, (b) job performance may cause job satisfaction, and (c) both job performance and job satisfaction may be caused by a variety of third variables (Petty et al., 1984; Wright & Cropanzano, 2000). During the 1960s and 1970s, several studies investigated these various causal paths, and at least minimal evidence was found for each causal path (for reviews, see Lawler & Porter, 1967; Nord, 1976; Schwab & Cummings, 1970). Unfortunately, as Judge et al. (1998, 2001) observed, the general doubt regarding the job satisfaction/job performance relation led to a decline in research. As a result, the possibility of a causal connection between these two variables, if any, remains a highly worthwhile topic for future research efforts. We next examine research investigating the job satisfaction to retention relationship.
