## Cognitive, Affective, and Cultural Inﬂuences on Stigmatization

far lesser extent by the teachings of other religions (e.g., Buddhism, Islam, Judaism) or the beliefs of Native Americans (Deloria, 1994; Trice & Beyer, 1993). There are many signs of this, among them being (a) the phrase ‘‘In God We Trust’’ appears on U.S. dollar bills, (b) the saying ‘‘God Bless America’’ is commonly heard in the speeches of politicians, and (c) the ideologies of several Protestant sects (e.g., individualism, self-reliance, accumulation of wealth) have had a profound effect on the way that U.S. organizations are structured and managed (Stone-Romero & Stone, 1998; Trice & Beyer, 1993; Weber, 1958).

Cultural Homogeneity Issues The homogeneity of the worldviews held by members of a society is a very important consideration, because in homogeneous cultures there is likely to be a relatively high degree of consensus on various cultural ideals. As a consequence, conﬂicts among dominant and non-dominant groups will be minimal. Moreover, individuals within the society will be unlikely to deviate from culture-based norms. In contrast, in non-homogeneous cultures there is likely to be ongoing conﬂict between the worldviews of the dominant and non-dominant groups (e.g., the present conﬂict between Islamic sects in Iraq). However, in order to promote the stability of system culture, members of dominant groups work toward the assimilation, margin- alization, or eradication of individuals in non-dominant groups (Berry, 1990, 1995; Kurzban & Leary, 2001; Stone-Romero, Stone, & Salas, 2003). The treatment of Native Americans by the Europeans who colonized the U.S. is a vivid illustration of this (Brown, 1970; Deloria, 1994).

individuals may be representatives of a number of cultures or subcultures, each of which has its own worldviews. Thus, for instance, at a national level people in the U.S. subscribe much more strongly to the value of individualism than do people in such countries as Colombia, Venezuela, Peru, and China (Hofstede, 1980). However, this does not negate the fact that worldviews differ across various subcultures within any given nation. For example, within the U.S. the economically the belief advantaged than the disadvantaged, (b) Anglo-Americans than Native Americans, and (c) men than women (e.g., Triandis, 1994).

In any social system (e.g., nation, organization),

in individualism is