## Toward a Theory of Reputation in Organizations

suggested that individuals develop personal reputations through behaviors that range from passive conformity to others’ expectations to active manipulation of the context. For example, Kilduff and Krackhardt (1994) found personal reputation to be as much a function of perceived associations with prominent others as it was a function of job performance. Furthermore, research has suggested that reputation is developed through accurate perceptions of advice networks (Krackhardt, 1990), and active engagement in political behaviors (Ammeter et al., 2002).

Building on early work on the reputational effectiveness of managers (Tsui, 1984), which is deﬁned as constituents’ judgments of the extent to which a manager is responsive to constituent expectations, Tsui (1994) the antecedents, mediators, and outcomes of developed a model of reputational effectiveness. According to this model, structural, social, and individual factors affect the homogeneity of contingency expectations, perceived dependence on and interdependence with other constituencies, identiﬁcation with these constituencies, which and strength of social ultimately affect the manager’s tendency toward responsiveness and attainment of reputational effectiveness. Ultimately, Tsui’s (1994) model suggests that reputational effectiveness has positive outcomes for the unit, the manager, and the organization as a whole.

Although the development of personal reputation has been somewhat overlooked, a number of researchers have focused their attention on the outcomes of this construct. For example, in a series of experiments, Rosen, Cochran, and Musser (1990) found that an applicant’s reputation was a more important predictor of interviewer evaluations of job suitability than the applicant’s self presentation style.

Reputation also has been found to have implications for job incumbents. For example, when a novice negotiator knows his opponent has a negative reputation for distributive negotiation, the novice negotiator is more likely to use distributive tactics, thus hindering his or her opponent’s performance (Tinsley, O’Connor, & Sullivan, 2002). Furthermore, Hall et al. (2004) suggested that leaders with positive reputations are afforded more trust, receive less monitoring, and are held to lower accountability standards. Finally, empirical research has found an interaction between reputation and helpful behaviors, such that helpful people with good reputations receive more rewards than helpful people with poor reputations (Johnson, Erez, Kiker, & Motowidlo, 2002).

Not only does an individual’s reputation affect the way others approach him or her, but it also affects the behavior of the individual. For example, when individuals believe their reputation is threatened, they experience

167

168

ROBERT ZINKO ET AL.

anxiety that spills over into their home life (Doby & Caplan, 1995). Furthermore, individuals’ perceptions of their external reputation, which is communicated to other organizations through organizational events or cues that signal the organization’s opinion of the individuals’ job performance, affects their probability of searching for another job and leaving the organization (Kydd, Ogilvie, & Slade, 1990).

As can be seen in the previous discussion, most of the existing research on personal reputation has either focused on its antecedents or outcomes. However, with the exception of Tsui’s (1994) work on reputational effectiveness, no research has provided a comprehensive explanation of the development and consequences of personal reputation. Therefore, the following sections will provide a theory of personal reputation that more precisely articulates the antecedents, consequences, moderators, and mediators of this important construct.