## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

irritation, anger, and the tendency to avoid the target, and (b) decreases in pity, and the willingness to assist the target.

An experimental study by Rush (1998) examined subjects’ affective reactions (e.g., likableness, pity, anger) to individuals with six types of stigmas, manipulating the controllability of each, for targets that varied in terms of race and sex. Among the ﬁndings were that reactions to individuals with non-controllable stigmas were more positive than reactions to people with controllable stigmas.

In addition, results of Experiment 1 of Weiner et al. (1988) showed, for example, that the less controllable the target’s stigma (a) the greater the liking of the target and the willingness to assist the target, and (b) the lesser the anger toward the target. Their Experiment 2 produced highly similar results.

Peril. Some types of stigmas (e.g., leprosy, AIDS, psychopathic deviance) are likely to evoke greater levels of perceived threat among observers than others (e.g., baldness, paraplegia), and the greater the threat, the more negative will be the observer’s emotional reactions. In support of this, Dijker and Raeijmaekers (1999) found that anxiety levels were greater for contact with patients who posed relatively high risk (i.e., injecting them) than for contact with those who posed low risk (i.e., examining them). In addition, contagiousness led to greater feelings of pity, powerlessness, and sadness. Moreover, Weiner et al. (1988) showed that compared with such non- threatening stigmas of a target as Alzheimer’s disease, blindness, and cancer, the stigmas of AIDS and drug abuse resulted in (a) higher levels of blame and anger, and (b) lower degrees of liking, pity, and willingness to assist the target. Finally, Blascovich et al. (2001) found clear evidence of the effects of threatening stigmas on both physiologically and behaviorally indexed outcomes.

Seriousness. Emotional reactions to stigmas appear to vary with their seriousness. Dijker and Raeijmaekers (1999) found, for example, that in a simple contact condition, serious diseases evoked more anxiety among subjects than non-serious diseases. In addition, the greater the seriousness of the disease, the greater the levels of elicited pity, powerlessness, sadness, and the desire to provide help to a patient.

The study by Dijker and Koomen (2003) examined the effects of stigma seriousness on emotional reactions. Their Experiment 2 revealed, for example, that compared to a target with a non-serious illness, a target with a serious illness evoked greater levels of both (a) pity and (b) feelings of uneasiness and tension from interacting with the target.