---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1d41bc70f70b470e7920e3b8090234719249f4e2
title: '13'
---
# Methodological Issues

One practical issue faced by researchers is whether the basic tools and methodologies are in place for researchers who want to enter this area without having to ‘‘re-invent the wheel.’’ The fact that humor has been of interest to researchers across disciplines has resulted in the application of diverse methodologies to its study. For example, participant observation (e.g., Linstead, 1985; Sykes, 1966), discourse analysis (e.g., Hatch, 1997), and quantitative content analysis (e.g., Holmes et al., 2001) have all been successfully employed. Social network analysis also represents a promising methodological approach to the study of humor in organizations. For example, one might examine whether individuals who use humor are likely to be highly central within workplace networks, to have larger networks, and to ﬁll structural holes (e.g., Burt, Joanotta, & Mahoney, 1998; Klein, Lim, Saltz, & Mayer, 2004).

In addition, there is a growing body of research that employs survey measures of humor [e.g., the Multidimensional Sense of Humor Scale (Thorson & Powell, 1993), the Humor Styles Questionnaire (Martin et al., 2003), the Sense of Humor Questionnaire (Svebak, 1996), and the Situational Humor Response Questionnaire (Martin & Lefcourt, 1984)]. Although these measures, as well as survey measures of cultural values (e.g., Schwartz, 1994; Singelis, Triandis, Bhawuk, & Gelfand, 1995) or organiza- tional outcomes might be useful, researchers must not be overreliant on such measures. Speciﬁcally, research using single informant, cross-sectional data collection is fraught with potential for ambiguous causality and misleading correlations (Ko¨ hler & Ruch, 1996). In particular, single-source of data biases are highly problematic if empirical relationships between humor and other socially desirable phenomena are to be examined. For example, as Avolio et al. (1999) note, when leader effectiveness and leader humor are rated by the same individual, ratings on one dimension are likely to inﬂuence ratings on the other dimension, resulting in inﬂated correlations. Multi-informant designs in which different individuals are asked to provide

255

256
