---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d2a8da0fdfb8d90f7612dccf702a2f332cda9a5d
title: '13'
---
# THOMAS A. WRIGHT AND RUSSELL CROPANZANO

select potential job applicants based on their level of PWB could possibly depress these individuals further, which in turn, could make these job applicants even more unemployable in the future (Wright, 2005). In turn, this can engender signiﬁcant human and societal costs, for both the individual and organization involved. Given these potentially serious ethical and human/societal cost considerations, we note that it is very important for business executives and human resource personnel to carefully consider these ethical issues if choosing to use PWB in the selection process.

Coupled with these ethical considerations is a more practically based issue to consider before deciding to incorporate PWB in one’s stafﬁng system. If faking one’s PWB can be useful in obtaining a desired job position or promotional opportunity, then it is likely that some job candidates might be motivated to fake their PWB responses (Cropanzano & Wright, 1999; Rosse, Stecher, Miller, & Levin, 1998). While certainly beneﬁcial to the job candidate in potentially securing a job, this type of faking is unlikely to beneﬁt the organization in the long run. As one possible remedy to the problem of applicant faking, we suggest that prospective employers seek out applicants who are both psychologically well, and exhibit ethical character and vitality (Quick, Gavin, Cooper, & Quick, 2000).

Consistent with the practice at leading colleges and universities, similarly inclined organizations could actively seek to hire and promote job candidates with either a documented history of making ethically based choices or a high potential for consistently making sound, ethical decisions. One especially promising approach to assist in better selecting potentially ethical applicants may be found in the recent work of Peterson and his colleagues (Park & Peterson, 2003; Peterson & Seligman, 2004). These authors have identiﬁed 24 positive traits, organized around six core virtues (e.g., wisdom and knowledge, courage, justice, temperance, and transcendence) that have consistently emerged over time and across history in philosophical and religious discussions on human goodness and worth. According to Quick et al. (2000), the value-added contribution of having psychologically well and ethical employees is signiﬁcant for not only the individual employee, but can also result in increased adaptability, ﬂexibility, and performance for the employing organization. We next offer the second intervention option of employee training.

love,
