---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8aef846619989c2a6759f0a5427fc78436655834
title: '13'
---
## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

moderates the relationship between X and Y. Fortunately, time-related variables are frequently available in organizational research. Speciﬁcally, age, organizational tenure, and job experience are often available and used as control variables, but seldom are the complexities of the dynamic performance literature drawn upon to appropriately integrate such temporal variables in meaningful ways (Sturman, 2003). One way to consider potential dynamic effects is by looking for interactions associated with temporal variables. For example, if a given characteristic, say cognitive ability, is interacted with job experience, and this interaction is shown to be associated with job performance, a logical conclusion is that the effect of cognitive ability on job performance changes with time. Similarly, dividing employees into cohorts by experience (e.g., Farrell & McDaniel, 2001; Schmidt et al., 1986) allows one to consider longitudinal issues with cross- sectional data. For example, the coefﬁcients associated with an independent variable varies systematically across cohorts (like for cognitive ability as shown in Farrell & McDaniel, 2001), this evidence would support the conclusion that the effect of cognitive ability changes with the passage of time. Given we have prior reason to believe that cognitive ability is a stable characteristic, the presence of the type of signiﬁcant effects described above would suggest support for the changing tasks model. In terms of the static and dynamic model reviewed earlier, the effect of cognitive ability (B) is contained within B2(t).
