---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e1f900dce1d0ddb66dd03cc63ddfb8d17e8e5a16
title: '13'
---
# THOMAS A. WRIGHT AND RUSSELL CROPANZANO

simultaneous effect of emotional exhaustion. Other possible confounding third variables are job satisfaction, negative affectivity (NA), and positive affectivity (PA). Given the demonstrated intercorrelations among these variables (e.g., Diener et al., 1999; Judge & Locke, 1993; Wright, Cropanzano, Denney, & Moline, 2002a), it could be that PWB and job performance are only associated due to the spurious relations with these other variables. On the basis of the limited information to date, this does not seem to be the case. In a cross-sectional study, Wright, Larwood, and Denney (2002b) found that PWB was positively related to job performance over and above the effects of emotional exhaustion, NA, and PA. These ﬁndings were replicated and extended in a longitudinal follow-up. Wright et al. (2002a) found that PWB and job performance (at Time 2) were positively related even when the effects of job satisfaction, NA, PA, and prior performance (at Time 1) were all taken into account. Finally, Wright and Staw (1999, Study 2) found that well-being remained signiﬁcantly related to performance even when controlling for employee age, gender, tenure, educational level, and prior performance.

The fact that several studies (e.g., Wright et al., 2002a; Wright & Staw, 1999) were able to control for prior performance in the prediction of subsequent performance is important and warrants further attention. After all, while interesting, one could suggest that the ﬁndings reported between PWB and performance were merely a function of the type of performance instrument used (Ledford, 1999). Customarily, this line of research has used supervisory ratings of employee performance. In reviewing these results, one could legitimately propose that these ﬁndings are due to halo effects in the performance variable. That is, employees who are more psychologically well may be more fun to be around and more likeable (Wright & Cropanzano, 1998). This is a highly relevant suggestion because people (i.e., supervisors) tend to be more tolerant of those they favor or like. In this case, if true, supervisors may provide more positive evaluations those more psychologically well (Robbins & DeNisi, 1994). In other words, rather than being directly related to changes in performance, PWB may be nothing more than a systematic source of halo in performance evaluations (Wright, 2005). Though one cannot totally rule out the halo alternative, we offer four basic arguments to the halo option. First, recall that a number of the studies had longitudinal designs. This is signiﬁcant because the longitudinal design has afforded opportunities to measure the inﬂuence of PWB on incremental changes in rated performance over time (Wright et al., 2002a; Wright & Staw, 1999). Thus, a major strength of the multiple measures of performance over time design is the ability to capture any halo contained in the prior
