---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 037f35720d09b2abba9979504617fe223bfebdf3
title: '13'
---
# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

Integrating our framework for diversity context presented in the previous section with the various types of diversity-related effects uncovered in past research and discussed in this section, we consider next how various aspects of diversity context can inﬂuence the range of diversity effects in past research.

TAKING STOCK OF CONTEXTUAL INFLUENCES ON DIVERSITY RESEARCH: FROM ‘‘BLACK BOX’’ TO ‘‘PANDORA’S BOX’’?

We started out by noting that the discrepant ﬁndings of past research may to some extent be resolved by a closer scrutiny of the context that shapes diversity dynamics. The process of identifying and discussing many aspects of context in this paper was daunting and the issues we discussed above raise more challenging questions than the ones we hoped to answer, leaving us wondering if we had opened a ‘‘Pandora’s Box’’ of moderator variables for future research consideration. The studies we reviewed revealed that in response to calls to open the ‘‘black box’’ of organizational demography (Lawrence, 1997), in the past decade researchers were playing closer attention to possible mediating mechanisms linking diversity variables to process and performance outcomes. In the more recent research we reviewed, we also found a growing emphasis on moderating inﬂuences on diversity dynamics, albeit at the discrete level. This is certainly a fruitful development in the ﬁeld and we hope this trend continues to evolve as researchers engage in and expand contextual considerations to fully appreciate the complex outcomes of workplace diversity.

Our purpose in this paper was to open an initial line of inquiry that takes to diversity into consideration various contextual research and attempts to resolve the contradictory ﬁndings from past research. Below we consider how context may produce some of the contradictory results that we discussed in the previous section. Fig. 2 summarizes how various aspects of context could play a role in engendering the mixed pattern represented in Table 1.

inﬂuences relevant
