---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 97ed4af04fc9deefa48d105f0d04b50a164b9484
title: '13'
---
# REFERENCES

10 different species of ADR. (1993, Nov./Dec.). Across the Board, 30(9), 18–19. Adair, W., Okumura, T., & Brett, J. M. (2001). Negotiation behavior when cultures collide: The

U.S. and Japan. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86(3), 371–385.

Arad, S., & Carnevale, P. J. D. (1994). Partisanship effects in judgments of fairness and trust in third parties in the Palestinian-Israeli conﬂict. Journal of Conﬂict Resolution, 38, 423–451.

Arnold, J. A. (2000). Mediator insight: Disputants’ perceptions of third parties’ knowledge and its effect on mediated negotiation. International Journal of Conﬂict Management, 11, 318–336.

Arnold, J. A., & O’Connor, K. M. (1999). Ombudspersons or peers? The effect of third-party expertise and recommendations on negotiation. Journal of Applied Psychology, 84, 776–785.

Bond, M. H., Leung, K., & Schwartz, S. (1992). Explaining choices in procedural and distributive justice across cultures. International Journal of Psychology, 27(2), 211–225. Bowling, D., & Hoffman, D. A. (2003). Bringing peace into the room: How the personal qualities of the mediator impact the process of conﬂict resolution. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. Brams, S. J., & Merrill, S. (1986). Binding versus ﬁnal offer arbitration: A combination is best.

Management Science, 32(10), 1346–1355.

Brett, J. M. (2001). Negotiating globally: How to negotiate deals, resolve disputes and make

decisions across cultural boundaries. San Francisco, CA: Jossey Bass.

Brett, J. M., Barsness, Z., & Goldberg, S. (1996). The effectiveness of mediation: An independent analysis of cases handled by four major service providers. Negotiation Journal, 12, 259–269.

Brett, J. M., & Goldberg, S. B. (1983). Mediator-advisors: A new third-party role. In: M.H. Bazerman & R. J. Lewicki (Eds), Negotiating in organizations (pp. 165–176). Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.

Brewer, T. J., & Mills, L. R. (1999, November). Combining mediation and arbitration. Dispute
