---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9e4f297a929f7deeef5630d38dddd857b6203810
title: '13'
---
# the commitment

339

340

DONALD E. CONLON ET AL.

are more committed to implement voluntary than imposed settlements. These effects may also extend to hybrid procedures if an agreement is negotiated in the mediation phase.

We also see participation in the generation of an agreement impacting commitment to follow through with arbitration decisions. For example, Starke and Notz (1981) report that FOA ‘‘winners’’ (those whose proposed offer was accepted by the third party) are signiﬁcantly more committed to implementing the imposed settlement than either FOA ‘‘losers’’ (those whose proposed offer was not accepted), or those who had a third party generated decision imposed on them in binding arbitration. One of the alleged advantages of double FOA over other forms of arbitration is that because the losing side can select between the winner’s two offers, the loser is more committed to fully implementing the arbitrated outcome. However, little empirical research has conﬁrmed this advantage for the double FOA procedure.

Generally, in egalitarian and individualistic cultures when the parties have voice and play a role in the determination of the outcome, they tend to feel that the agreement is more fair and are more committed to the outcome (Carnevale et al., 1989). In some cultures, however, it may be that commitment is driven not by voice, but by punishments for not complying, or lack of acceptance or other negative consequences from the collective. Furthermore, we may ﬁnd that commitment may stem from other factors not currently explored in Western research. For example, we might ﬁnd in hierarchical cultures, the commitment of low-status disputants to implement an outcome would be stronger under direction from a higher status third party than under their own voluntary agreement. Whatever the drivers, we suggest that in general, disputant commitment to the implementation of a settlement is desirable.

Proposition 11. Procedures that maximize relationship enhancement (maintain harmony, avoid social disruption, and save face) will be seen as more favorable than procedures that do not. This preference will be exacerbated in hierarchical and collectivist cultures, relative to egalitarian and individualist cultures.

Proposition 12. Disputant compliance with third party-imposed outcomes will be weaker in egalitarian and individualist cultures, as compared with hierarchical and collectivist cultures. In addition, the motivation to comply with imposed outcomes will be driven by legal concerns in egalitarian and individualistic cultures, whereas it will be driven by deference to authority and concern for face in hierarchical and collectivist cultures.
