data/clean/13__chunk0577.md, before:

## Cognitive, Affective, and Cultural Inﬂuences on Stigmatization

Aesthetic Qualities. Appearance-related marks differ in terms of the degree to which they lead observers to regard a target as repulsive, ugly, or upsetting. As a result, some stigmas (e.g., severe physical deformities, severe facial scarring from burns) tend to evoke more negative emotional responses than do others (e.g., cleft palate, acne). For instance, Experiment 1 of Blascovich et al. (2001) showed that compared with a target without a facial birthmark, a target with such a mark evoked increased levels threat among subjects, as indexed by cardiovascular reactivity. In addition, the birthmark had effects on other measures (e.g., decreased performance on a word- ﬁnding task).

Origin or Controllability. Stigmas differ in terms of the degree to which they can be attributed to the prior actions of the target (e.g., Dijker & Koomen, 2003; Dijker & Raeijmaekers, 1999; Jones et al., 1984; Weiner et al., 1988). For example, whereas race is considered not to be under the target’s control, alcoholism and other forms of addiction are typically viewed as subject to his or her control. And research shows that the greater the degree to which a mark can be attributed to the actions of the target, the more negative the observer’s emotional reactions to it. For example, research by Dijker and Raeijmaekers (1999) studied anticipated emotional responses (i.e., anxiety) to having simple contact with, giving a physical examination to, or giving an injection to hypothetical patients with diseases that varied in terms of being (a) non-serious (appendicitis, hepatitis) versus serious (kidney cancer, AIDS), and (b) non-contagious (appendicitis, kidney cancer) versus contagious (hepatitis, AIDS). The patients also varied in terms of sexual orientation (heterosexual vs. homosexual). Results showed, for example, that friendly feelings were lower toward homosexuals than heterosexuals with contagious diseases. One plausible explanation for this is that the homosexuals brought the diseases upon themselves.

In three experiments, Dijker and Koomen (2003) studied the effects of personal responsibility for a stigma on emotional reactions to hypothetical interactions with stigmatized targets. Results of Experiment 1 revealed that as personal responsibility increased (a) pity and the desire to help the target decreased, and (b) anxiety and anger increased. In addition, Experiment 2 showed, for example, that (a) when a person was responsible for their illness, subjects had a tendency to avoid him and showed him less pity, and (b) as responsibility increased there were increases in both expected irritation in interacting with the target and the tendency to avoid the target. Finally, Experiment 3 showed, for instance, that as increases in expected personal responsibility increased there were (a)

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/13__chunk0577.md, after:

---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 27b51230c96e3ac9db28fe02f1199814647ea558
title: '13'
---
## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

Effect of Actual Social Identity on Emotional Reactions Consistent with Arrow 17 in the SIO model, there is considerable evidence that a target’s ASI inﬂuences an observer’s emotional reactions to him or her (e.g., Fiske et al., 2002; Fiske & Ruscher, 1993; Goffman, 1963; Heatherton et al., 2003; Jones et al., 1984; Kurzban & Leary, 2001; Mackie & Hamilton, 1993). In addition, some marks (e.g., highly contagious diseases) result in stigmatization in virtually in all cultures (Kurzban & Leary, 2001). Interestingly, research reveals that even non-human animals appear to stigmatize other creatures. More speciﬁcally, such animals (a) create territories from which they exclude other animals, form hierarchies to dominate other animals, and (c) ostracize animals who have diseases or pathogens. In addition, negative emotional reactions to various types of stigmas have been found with both self-report measures and physiological measures (e.g., Blascovich, Mendes, Hunter, Lickel, & Kowai- Bell, 2001). This is very important because physiological measures reports being distorted by circumvent impression management and related motives.

(b)

the possibility of observers’

As noted above, Goffman (1963) viewed stigmas as falling into one of three general categories, tribal, and i.e., abominations of blemishes of character. However, the degree to which any given stigma will evoke negative affective or emotional responses is a function of one or more of the factors considered below (e.g., Jones et al., 1984).

the body,

Course or Stability. Some stigmas remain constant over time (e.g., race) and/or are relatively irreversible (e.g., amputations), whereas others change (e.g., acne). Marks of the former variety typically lead to more negative emotional reactions than those of the latter. In this regard, Weiner, Perry, and Magnusson (1988) conducted two experiments to study the effects of the stability (e.g., obesity vs. AIDS) and controllability of 10 stigmas on reactions of pity, anger, and helping judgments. Results of Experiment 1 showed, for instance, that the greater the stability of the stigma, the lesser the perceived efﬁcacy of intervening to change it.

Disruptiveness. Stigmas have differential capacities social interactions (e.g., communication) between a marked target and an observer. For example, psychotic behavior is likely to be more disruptive of interactions than is physical unattractiveness. In general, the greater the disruptiveness of a mark, the more negative will be an observer’s emotional responses to it.

to disrupt
