---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: df02354da06ca8f8646f894782d1664b0f6063f9
title: '13'
---
# OVERVIEW

cultural inﬂuences on stigmatization in organizations, detail how stigmati- zation affects human resource management processes and practices, and consider strategies that can be used to reduce the problems faced by stigmatized individuals in organizations.

In the fourth paper, Zinko, Ferris, Blass, and Laird maintain that in work organizations, we engage in frequent discourse about the nature of reputations, and we also see personal reputation used as a basis for important human resources decisions; however, there has been very little theory and research on personal reputation in organizations published in the organizational sciences. The authors address this need by proposing a conceptualization of personal reputation in organizations. In this con- ceptualization, reputation is presented as an agreed upon, collective perception by others, and involves behavior calibration derived from social comparisons with referent others that results in a deviation from the behavioral norms in one’s environment, as observed and evaluated by others. Implications of this conceptualization are discussed, as are directions for future research.

In the ﬁfth paper, Robert and Yan address the topic of humor in organizations. They tell us that the study of humor has a long tradition in philosophy, sociology, psychology, anthropology, and communications. Evidence from these ﬁelds suggests that humor can have effects on creativity, cohesiveness, and performance, but organizational scholars have paid it relatively little attention. The authors ﬁrst outline the theoretical rationale underlying the production and appreciation of humor, namely, its motivational, cognitive, and emotional mechanisms. Next, they review the literature linking humor to creativity, cohesiveness, and other performance- relevant outcomes. Finally, the authors venture beyond the current humor literature by developing speciﬁc predictions about how culture might interact with humor in organizational contexts. Throughout the paper, they discuss possible research directions and methodological issues relevant to the study of humor in organizations.

In the sixth paper, Wright and Cropanzano address the happy/productive worker thesis. They point out that since at least the famous Hawthorne studies, the happy/productive worker thesis has forcefully captured the imagination of management scholars and human resource professionals alike. According to this ‘‘Holy Grail’’ of management research, workers who are happy on the job will have higher job performance, and possibly higher job retention, than those who are less happy. But what is happiness? Most typically, happiness has been measured in the management sciences as job satisfaction. They argue that this viewpoint is unnecessarily limiting and
