---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2549eb96dd82a04cd0a75eb973533c5a79272280
title: '13'
---
## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

A limitation of Ackerman’s work is that the theory is focused on task performance. While task performance is obviously related to job perfor- mance, the contexts and constructs are distinct. For example, Ackerman’s work generally examined tasks where skills acquisition can be completed in fewer than 20hours of training. For job performance, even the simplest of jobs generally involves performance of multiple tasks (Borman, 1991). Second, while tests of task performance employ relatively simple measures of performance, the construct of job performance is recognized to be far more difﬁcult to measure, complex, and multidimensional (e.g., Motowidlo et al., 1997; Murphy & Schiarella, 1997; Rotundo & Sackett, 2002; Viswesvaran, Ones, & Schmidt, 2005; Welbourne, Johnson, & Erez, 1998). Third, tests of Ackerman’s model generally frame time in terms of minutes or hours (e.g., Ackerman, 1988, 1992; Kanfer & Ackerman, 1989) whereas studies of job performance over time generally describe performance in terms of months or years (e.g., Deadrick et al., 1997; Ployhart & Hakel, 1998; Sturman, 2003; Sturman et al., 2005; Sturman & Trevor, 2001).

Recognizing the substantive differences between task performance and job performance, Murphy (1989) applied Ackerman’s theory to the job performance context. Murphy’s application is in many ways similar to Ackerman’s work, but with some notable differences. First, because of the different nature of tasks (as examined by Ackerman) and the elements comprising job performance, Murphy does not distinguish between complexity and consistency. Rather, complexity ‘‘is used as a gross index of a job’s cognitive demands’’ (Murphy, 1989, p. 195).

Murphy’s application also results in a model with two phases instead of three: the transition and maintenance stages. The transition stage occurs when an employee is new to a job or when the major duties associated with a job change. Similar to the ﬁrst phase of Ackerman’s model, this phase places high cognitive demands on workers who must acquire new information and cannot rely on past experience. The maintenance stage occurs when jobs are well-learned. Murphy predicts that in this stage, cognitive ability is less important and personality and motivational factors play a more important role in the determination of job performance (note that Ackerman’s model does not consider personality or motivational factors). Although Murphy recognizes transition stages may be particularly difﬁcult’’ (p. 191), his model predicts that there are ‘‘distinct stages that characterize a worker’s performance on the job’’ (p. 192).
