---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d6400086a7e232ae8ca3d87fb5a724af5855c703
title: '13'
---
## Toward a Theory of Reputation in Organizations

little systematic work in the organizational sciences regarding the nature and process dynamics of personal reputation in organizations. The proposed conceptualization in this paper is an attempt to address that need, and to generate scholarly interest in this important area.

Although these initial results are encouraging, more research is needed to investigate how different inﬂuence tactics and strategies (i.e., particular combinations of tactics) interact with types of reputations to affect work outcomes of individuals. Thus, the notion of reputation as it applies to social inﬂuence may be one of the most promising, and yet challenging, areas of future inquiry, and builds on theoretical notions presented by Tedeschi and Melburg (1984). Reputation and inﬂuence behavior appear to be inextricably intertwined in everyday behavior, and it may be difﬁcult to isolate on whether it is the reputation itself, or the inﬂuence behaviors strategically selected to create and/or reinforce the reputation, which explain the outcomes of reputation, such as interpersonal attraction and affect (Jones & Schrauger, 1970).

The active, intentional efforts individuals engage in to help form their own reputation is motivated by a desire to exercise control over the speciﬁc impressions that others form of them, and the images they convey (Bozeman & Kacmar, 1997). Therefore, individuals exhibit behaviors that are consistent with the reputation they desire (Baumeister & Jones, 1978; Tsui, 1984), and then are constrained in the future to demonstrate behaviors consistently that reinforce the reputation developed (Baumeister, 1982b).

Greenberg (1990) argued that ‘‘impression management strategies have the effect of reputation-building’’ (p. 138), and the consistent subsequent demonstration of such behaviors can contribute to reputation formation and solidiﬁcation (Ferris et al., 2003). Also, Bromley (1993) argued that impression management behaviors can be used not only to sustain reputations, but also to deliberately manipulate them. Furthermore, adding to the complexity is that individuals are believed to possess multiple reputations (Schlenker, 1980; Tsui, 1984), and so they need to ensure that each is reinforced by the consistent display of reputation-appropriate behaviors. Recently, Roberts (2005) discussed similar issues of impression management behavior consistency and inconsistency in her conceptualiza- tion of professional image construction.

As we learn about how reputations are constructed, we may gain new insights into personal motivation. As individuals seek to establish or maintain their reputations within speciﬁc contexts, their behavior within those contexts should be predictable to the degree commensurate with their reputations’ value. This argument posits that, as the costs of establishing

193

194

ROBERT ZINKO ET AL.

and maintaining a reputation increase, so does its value within a given context. Furthermore, as the value of an individual’s reputation to others increases, so then does the potential reward to the individual who possesses that reputation. Finally, as the reward potential of a reputation increases, the greater is the incentive for an individual to act in accordance with the expected behaviors suggested by the reputation.

This notion that reputation holds value is both implicitly understood, and has been explicitly addressed by Fombrun (1996) when discussing his idea of ‘‘reputational capital,’’ and how ﬁrms accrue such beneﬁts. He deﬁned reputational capital as: ‘‘the amount by which the company’s market value exceeds the liquidation value of its assets’’ (Fombrun, 1996, p. 92). Ferris et al. (2003) proposed a ‘‘capital as metaphor’’ perspective to suggest that personal reputations can be valuated in much the same way as Fombrun argued on behalf of corporate reputations.

somewhat akin to the ‘‘human resource accounting’’ perspective that was introduced nearly half a century ago by Rensis Likert at the University of Michigan, working on a multidisciplinary team that included psychologists and behavioral accountants (e.g., Flamholtz, 1999). The perspective was simple in concept, but difﬁcult in practice. Essentially, it argued that accounting principles could be used with human resources just as it is used with material resources, and investment, valuation, and return on investment calculations could be made. Although the actual practice of human resource accounting was shown to be impractical at the time, the contemporary notion of the valuation of personal reputation appears conceptually appealing. Indeed, Bok (1993) makes similar points implicitly (if not explicitly) about assigning value to reputations when he discussed the cost of talent today, with particular reference to corporate executives and other professionals.
