## A Multilevel Framework for Work Team Diversity Research

Turner & Haslam, 2001). By emphasizing the team’s mission, shared values and ideology, and the link between followers’ individual interests with team interests, these leaders can provide team members with oppo- rtunities to appreciate team accomplishments and other team members’ contributions, and build a broad basis for identiﬁcation with the team (Kark & Shamir, 2002). Drawing on Brewer and Gardner’s (1996) work on self-identity, Kark and Shamir (2002) theorize that these leaders may be viewed as prototypic members of the team and representatives of the team’s identity and values and, hence, elicit identiﬁcation with the team as a collective (Howell & Shamir, 2005). Based on these theore- tical perspectives, we propose that future research might consider the role of motivational leadership styles in inﬂuencing the outcomes of diversity in teams.

Team Climate The overall climate in the team has been considered as a relevant contextual variable by a number of researchers. Some researchers have focused on aspects of climate that relate to the orientation of team members to work in groups (e.g., Eby & Dobbins, 1997; Mohammed & Angell, 2004). Mohammed and Angell (2004) proposed that the levels of team orientation (deﬁned as team members’ preference for working as a group) moderated the relationship between demographic diversity and relationship conﬂict. The study did not ﬁnd any direct effects of team diversity on task or relationship conﬂict, but found that, in support of the moderating propositions, team orientation mitigated the negative effects of diversity on conﬂict. Other aspects of team climate such as psychological safety and empowerment have also been considered relevant moderating variables inﬂuencing the relationship between team diversity and out- comes. Gibson and Vermeulen (2003) argued that to the extent that the team context team members would be more likely to engage in information seeking behaviors and look toward continuously improving work processes. Their ﬁndings indicated that contextual inﬂuences such as the climate for empowerment in the team can inﬂuence team learning behavior differentially depending on the strength of demographic sub-groups (i.e., degree of overlap in demographic characteristics) within the team. Results suggested that empowerment has a negative inﬂuence on learning behavior in teams with either no sub-groups or very strong sub-groups. Empowerment had a positive inﬂuence on learning behavior only in teams with moderate sub- group strength.