---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8a8b8684d0a819a3a2e98d5a4d6f5a3360ae3829
title: '13'
---
# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

are considered in research. For example, events such as race riots in the surrounding community may lead to greater focus on race diversity in teams in relation to emotional conﬂict and other affective outcomes. 4. ‘‘Where’’ are we likely to see speciﬁc outcomes of diversity? We believe that location-speciﬁc contextual factors are extremely relevant for informing our choice of diversity variables as well as the outcomes of diversity. Our review of diversity research suggests that, to date, the research has taken a US-centric perspective both in the conceptualization of diversity leading to the inclusion of certain diversity variables over others, as well as in terms of the type of dependent variables considered. The choice of diversity attributes and outcome variables would vary in other national contexts. For example, in the Indian context, age diversity may not translate into conﬂict at the team level because prevalent age-related cultural norms that dictate deferential inter-generational interactions. In fact, age diverse teams in India would represent greater cohesion and fewer process losses than team that are homogeneous in terms of age. In age-based homogeneous teams in India, it is possible that team members are more likely to engage in social comparison and competition that may be detrimental to team functioning. With the growing internationaliza- tion of the management research community taking into account the unique aspects and outcomes of diversity in non-US settings may change the nature of the debate around the pros and cons of diversity that has evolved in the US.
