## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

interested in humor for hundreds or even thousands of years. Although their work has contributed substantially to the demystiﬁcation of humor, and the development of theoretical and methodological approaches to the study of humor that are appropriate for their respective disciplines, relatively little of this work has ﬁltered into the research of organizational scholars. Indeed, the ﬁrst substantial signs of interest by organizational scholars in humor came with the publication of two papers on humor in the Academy of Management Review in the early 1980s. Malone’s (1980) paper focused on the use of humor as a potential management tool, and noted the potential beneﬁts and pitfalls of humor use by managers. Duncan (1982) went a step further by reviewing the limited literature on the topic, and put forth a number of speciﬁc research questions for exploring the use of humor in organizations. However, a review of the organizational literature in the decades since the publication of those two papers reveals limited theoretical and empirical attention to the topic. One possible explanation for this apparent lack of interest is that theoretical approaches adopted by humor researchers from various disciplines constitute an odd patchwork of perspectives on humor. This is driven in part by the fact that much of the research on humor that is directly relevant to organizations has been published outside of the discipline or outside of the more popular and mainstream management journals. In addition, some humor research conducted in organizations has used orga- nizations as a convenient context for the examination of humor, but does little to connect theory or ﬁndings to the broader organizational literature. Therefore, the ﬁrst major goal of this paper is to provide a theoretical integration of the literature on humor and related phenomena that will serve to organize the disparate theoretical perspectives. Speciﬁcally, we argue that three primary mechanisms are important for understanding humor pheno- mena and their consequences in organizations: (a) a motivational mechanism that describes why individuals produce humor in interpersonal interactions, (b) a cognitive mechanism that describes how humor ‘‘works’’ and how humorous communications are distinguished from non-humorous commu- nications by an audience, and (c) an emotional mechanism that serves to link the cognitive experience of humor with subsequent behavior. In the ﬁrst major section of this article, we review the literature relevant to each of the three mechanisms, and highlight important relationships between mechanisms.

A second possible explanation for the limited coverage of humor in the organizational literature is that organizational researchers might not believe that humor is important or worthy of study. Indeed, Morreall (1991) notes that humor traditionally has been perceived as ‘‘frivolous and unproductive’’ (p. 359), and is incongruent with the perception that work is serious

207

208