# About the Authors

of individual job performance over time, the inﬂuence of compensation systems, and the impact of human resource management on organizational performance. He has published both research-oriented and practitioner- oriented papers in such journals as the Journal of Applied Psychology, Academy of Management Journal, Personnel Psychology, Journal of Manage- ment, Cornell Hotel and Restaurant Administration Quarterly, International Journal of Hospitality Management, Lodging Magazine, Lodging HR, A.A.H.O.A. Hospitality, HR.Com, and The American Compensation Associa- tion Journal. Michael holds a Ph.D., M.S., and B.S. from Cornell University’s School of Industrial and Labor Relations, and is a Senior Professional of Human Resources as certiﬁed by the Society for Human Resource Management.

Harold W. Willaby is a Ph.D. student in psychology at the University of Sydney. He holds a Masters of Business Administration degree from the Australian Graduate School of Management. His primary research interest is decision making under conditions of uncertainty.

Thomas A. Wright, formerly a Professor of Organizational Behavior at the University of Nevada, Reno, is now the Jon Wefald Leadership Chair in Business Administration and a Professor of Management at Kansas State University. He received his Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley. Similar to the Claude Rains character from the classic movie, Casablanca, he has published his work in many of the ‘‘usual suspects’’ including the Academy of Management Review, Journal of Applied Psychology, Psychometrika, Academy of Management Executive, Journal of Organizational Behavior, Journal of Management, Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, Organizational Dynamics, and the Journal of Manage- career has been ment publishing a number of articles on business ethics with his late father, Vincent P. Wright.