---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ec0acd4a18c78439b786b47a64847cc971902b1c
title: '13'
---
## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

Stone-Romero, E. F. (2005). Personality-based stigmas and unfair discrimination in work organizations. In: R. Dipboye & A. Colella (Eds), Discrimination at work: The psychological and organizational bases (pp. 255–279). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.

Stone-Romero, E. F., & Stone, D. L. (1998). Religious and moral inﬂuences on work-related values and work quality. In: D. B. Fedor & S. Ghosh (Eds), Advances in the management of organizational quality: An annual series of quality-related theory and research papers (Vol. 3, pp. 185–285). U.S.: Elsevier Science/JAI Press.

Stone-Romero, E. F., & Stone, D. L. (2005). How can justice be used to explain discrimination and prejudice? In: J. Greenberg & J. A. Colquitt (Eds), Handbook of organizational justice: Fundamental questions about fairness in the workplace (pp. 439–467). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. Stone-Romero, E. F., & Stone, D. L.

(in press). The dysfunctional consequences of individualism in organizations. In: M. Sutherland (Ed.), Psychology and Caribbean development. Jamaica, West Indies: Ian Randle Press.

Stone-Romero, E. F., Stone, D. L., & Hartman, M. (2002). Stereotypes of ethnic groups: Own views versus assumed views of others. Paper presented at the meeting of the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology. Toronto, Canada.

Stone-Romero, E. F., Stone, D. L., & Salas, E. (2003). The inﬂuence of culture on role conceptions and role behavior in organizations. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 52, 328–362.

Stanush, P., Arthur, W., Jr., & Doverspike, D. (1998). Hispanic and African American reactions to a simulated race-based afﬁrmative action scenario. Hispanic Journal of Behavioral Sciences, 20, 3–16.

Tajfel, H. (1974). Social identity and intergroup behavior. Social Science Information, 13, 65–93. Tajfel, H. (1978). Differentiation between social groups: Studies in the social psychology of
