## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

with large body sizes were regarded as lazy and/or lacking in self-control. The change in both VSIs and stereotypes may be due, in part, to differences in access to food between the 19th and 21st centuries. Consistent with the above-described evolutionary perspective of Kurzban and Leary (2001), in times of scarcity, women with large bodies might have been valued because of their potential to contribute to the survival of their families.

Moderating Effect of System Culture on Relation between Actual Social Identity and Emotional Responses Consistent with Arrow 14 in the SIO model, research shows that cultural norms and values moderate the relation between the ASIs of targets and the emotional reactions of observers to targets (Jones et al., 1984). Prior to considering the same research, we detail several reasons for hypothesizing this moderating effect.

Bases for Hypothesizing Differential Emotional Responses. Given that cognitive appraisals of the ASIs of targets inﬂuence observers’ emotional reactions, it seems reasonable to argue that the relation between these variables will vary as a function of cultural norms and values (Jones et al., 1984). The same norms and values may inﬂuence cognitive appraisals of stigmas by signaling the degree to which they threaten the observer. For instance, in cultures where people know that AIDS can not be communicated to others via casual contact, fear of individuals with AIDS should be lower than in cultures that lack this knowledge.

A second reason for positing that emotional reactions to ASIs are moderated by culture is that socialization experiences lead individuals to develop culture speciﬁc emotional reactions to individuals with stigmas (e.g., pity, anger, disgust, compassion, resentment). For example, the norm ‘‘to be kind’’ to people with speciﬁc types stigmas may lead observers to believe that it is more appropriate to display sympathy than disgust in encounters with individuals who have amputated limbs (Colella & Stone, 2005; Stone & Colella, 1996; Stone et al., 1992).

A third reason for positing cultural differences in emotional reactions to stigmas is that attributions about the causes of various conditions vary across cultures, and emotional reactions are typically most negative when targets are viewed as responsible for their stigma. For example, internal attributions are more likely in Western (individualistic) than in Eastern (collectivistic) cultures.

A fourth reason for arguing that emotional reactions to ASIs will differ across cultures is that norms about behaviors vary across cultures. For