# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

The disadvantage is that such an approach requires the estimation of additional parameters, potentially decreasing the chance of being able to estimate the desired model. The ﬂexibility of the LGCM approach is quite appealing, but at the cost of greater information demands which may not be feasible and the requirement of an equal data structure which may not reﬂect the realities of collecting job performance data.

Contrasting HLM and LGCM As discussed earlier, HLM and LGCM are special cases of the GLMM. In many ways, the HLM the approaches are very similar. Looking at equations, the coefﬁcients at Level-1 can be seen as latent variables: unobservable parameters that are approximated with error at Level-2 of the model (Raudenbush, 2001). For LGCM, these models are multilevel (or hierarchical) because they describe data that varies at two levels: within and across persons; they are random coefﬁcients model because each within-person observation is modeled with error, and the latent growth variables (i.e., the Level-2 across-person parameters) are also modeled with error (Raudenbush, 2001). In fact, for certain instances, HLM and LGCM are equal. If the longitudinal data has the same number of observations per person, if all observations are spaced with the same temporal intervals, and if the individual-level residuals are assumed to be uncorrelated, then HLM and LGCM will yield the exact same parameter estimates.

Some have also suggested the utility of second-order latent growth models (Sayer & Cumsille, 2001). While the speciﬁcs of this analysis are best described in detail elsewhere (e.g., Duncan, Duncan, Strycker, Li, & Alpert, 1999; Sayer & Cumsille, 2001; Williams, Edwards, & Vandenberg, 2003), this approach allows one to distinguish between the variance attributable to potentially different factors (Sayer & Cumsille, 2001) like group membership (e.g., if different jobs cause different performance slopes). This approach is again similar to (or potentially equal to) an HLM model, but a three-level model where the ﬁrst level represents within-person performance scores, the second level represents individual-level characteristics, and the third level captures representation within groups (e.g., jobs, and perhaps characteristics associated with speciﬁc jobs).

Power Issues for HLM and LCGM A concern for all empirical research methods is that of power, and some research has begun to pay attention to power issues with regard to longitudinal modeling. One such work examining the power of LCGM to detect individual differences in change, as well as correlations among changes