# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

diversity and key outcomes. For example, Pelled et al. (1999) posed contra- dictory hypotheses, proposing that task routineness could either enhance or diminish the positive relationship between team diversity and task conﬂict. The authors also proposed that task routines would reduce the positive relationship between diversity and emotional conﬂict; because complex tasks impose greater levels of stress on employees and group members, they may be more likely to feel frustration with dissimilar others in groups. Results indicated that task routineness enhanced the positive relationship between diversity and task conﬂict and reduced the negative relationship between team diversity and emotional conﬂict. Based on sensation-seeking theory, the authors suggested that the level of stimulation provided by team tasks could determine the way team members respond to dissimilar team members. When team members are ‘‘bored’’ by routine tasks, they may want to engage in task-oriented debates with team members but not in ‘‘unpleasant arousing experiences’’ that would characterize emotional conﬂict. These studies in terms of the level of challenge they offer suggest that team tasks, employees as well as the extent to which they reinforce common goals, can shape important process outcomes of team diversity. Together, these studies suggest that rather than a simple linear relationship between team composition-process-performance, studies that account for team task and consider more complex team level interactive effects are more likely to offer a comprehensive understanding of the outcomes of team diversity.

Team Tenure At the discrete level, team tenure (length of time team members have spent in the team) as well as group longevity (length of time the team has existed) have been viewed as relevant temporal inﬂuences on team diversity outcomes. This body of research has been informed by Harrison and colleagues’ work on the effects of time on the outcome of diversity (Harrison, Price, & Bell, 1998; Harrison, Price, Gavin, & Florey, 2002). This research shows that over a length of time, the effects of surface-level aspects of diversity (that are related to social categorization effects) may diminish in salience and deep-level aspects of diversity (that reﬂect differences in attitudes or values) can become more salient in teams.

Some studies have corroborated Harrison et al.’s study ﬁndings (Chatman & Flynn, 2001; Earley & Mosakowski, 2000; Pelled et al., 1999), while others have shown mixed support for the effects of time on diversity outcomes. For example, Schippers et al. (2003) distinguished between team tenure and group longevity and argue that team members expectations regarding the life of a group are also likely to inﬂuence the way they respond to