---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c8a4c4691238b123a7845c10957e125525d0fc45
title: '13'
---
# (b) The evolutionary perspective.

Kurzban and Leary (2001) argued that ‘‘from the standpoint of evolutionary psychology, emotions can be considered to be the differential activation of cognitive systems designed to guide the organism to adaptive behavior’’ (p. 200). That is, as a result of adaptive processes, observers are likely to exhibit speciﬁc emotional responses to targets with speciﬁc types of stigmas. First, the emotions of anger, fear, and hate are often evoked by stigmas (e.g., tribe, race, nationality) that have implications for the welfare of the observer and his or her ingroup members. For instance, anger stems from contact with targets who are viewed as having violated social norms or contracts (e.g., cheaters, drug addicts, pedophiles). In response to these emotions, the observer tries to punish the target. Emotional and behavioral responses to members of the Taliban or Al Qaeda provide clear illustrations of this.

Second, fear, hate, and anger result from contact with members of outgroups that are the considered fair game for exploitation (e.g., members of such minority groups as blacks, Mexicans, and American Indians). As a result of being outgroup members and evoking negative emotional reactions among observers, they frequently experience low levels of economic and social beneﬁts (Kurzban & Leary, 2001).

Third, and ﬁnally, disgust is evoked by targets who are stigmatized by virtue of disease or disﬁgurement. This emotion is viewed as adaptive because it leads observers to avoid contact with targets who are viewed as carriers of pathogens (e.g., those associated with AIDS, leprosy, syphilis, smallpox).
