## Toward a Theory of Reputation in Organizations

creates a framework within which impressions of others are formed. These authors argued that individuals’ desire for approbation is socially learned, and is developed within the reputational patchwork. In line with our argument, they suggested that individuals can craft their own reputations, and more importantly, they suggested that individuals can alter the very framework that deﬁnes their reputations. This suggests that individuals who are self regulating, not only try to affect their behavior, but also may change the norms that are used to evaluate their behavior. That is, they might adapt their behavior to ﬁt the situation, or they might maintain the existing behavioral repertoire, but exercise inﬂuence over and alter the contextual norms in acceptable ways, thus, effectively adapting the context to their behavior.

In order to discuss behavioral norms, it is necessary to deﬁne the context of the workplace. Jaques (1989) presented a useful perspective from which to view individuals in organizations, framing organizations as intricate webs of roles or positions that possess explicit and implicit expectations for behavior. These behavioral norms then become the baseline for judging behavior within the context of the organization.

Similarly, role theory proposes that each position in an organization has an inherent set of role expectations, which take the form of implicit contracts between individuals and their peers, subordinates, and supervisors (e.g., Katz & Kahn, 1978; Merton, 1968). Such sets of role expectations include cues on aspects of work-related behavior, such as, desired behaviors, organizational norms, values, attitudes, and justice. According to role theory, the behavior of individuals is judged against these behavioral norms in the eyes of their subordinates, peers, and supervisors, thus forming expectations that become cues for determining conformity (Tsui, 1984). To the extent that individuals deviate from the behavioral norms, their behavior becomes salient in the eyes of others. Therefore, at its most basic level, reputation formation is simply a measure of behavioral incongruence with speciﬁc role expectations.

The relationship between reputation and behavior in the workplace is signiﬁcant because reputation inconspicuously affects not only the choice of work behaviors, but also the effectiveness of those behaviors. These behaviors simultaneously craft and reinforce the very reputation from which the actions and interpretations were derived. The ebb and ﬂow of this reputational balance represents both the temporal and delicate nature of the context of social inﬂuence behavior in organizations. It is within this context that our personal reputation within the organization resides, and it is the inability to detach individual behavior from this context that makes the

181

182

ROBERT ZINKO ET AL.

further evaluation of reputation necessary to extend our understanding of social inﬂuence within organizations.

Social Capital Social capital is the ability to take advantage of opportunity through social networks (Burt, 1997). More speciﬁcally, social capital has been deﬁned as ‘‘the actual and potential resources individuals obtain from knowing others, being part of a social network with them, or merely from being known to them and having a good reputation. In a sense, social capital provides individuals with an important type of credential – a favorable social identity that can be converted into signiﬁcant, (Baron & Markman, 2000, p. 107).