---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1148035a206bfb7fef9f9f597fc6f1d17f7cef18
title: '13'
---
## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

1986). In general agreement with this perspective, Stephan and Stephan (1993, p. 117) view emotions as ‘‘labeled changes in arousal that involve deviations from homeostatic activation levels.’’ Note also that Vanman and Miller (1993, p. 214) view emotions as ‘‘differentiated states of positive and negative affect.’’ There are a large number of emotions, including anger, disgust, fear, irritation, joy, fear, and sadness. However, regardless of the speciﬁc emotion, the extant literature supports the view that emotions are far more complex than affect.

Affect. Vanman and Miller (1993, p. 214) view affect ‘‘as an overall positive/negative subjective feeling.’’ Similarly, Stephan and Stephan (1993, p. 117) note that affect ‘‘refers to feeling states that may range from strongly positive to strongly negative.’’ In contrast to emotions, although affective states may inﬂuence cognitions, they are not typically the focus of a person’s attention and do not interrupt ongoing streams of activity (Clark & Isen, 1982).

Conceptual Overlap. Even though the above-noted deﬁnitions seem to clearly differentiate between affect and emotions, the literature provides clear instances of the overlap of these concepts. For example, Bodenhausen (1993, p. 14) notes that intergroup situations often result in the evocation of integral affect, deﬁned as ‘‘the emotion(s) elicited by social group itself and the usual conditions and contexts with which the group is associated.’’ This deﬁnition blurs the distinction between affect and emotions. Thus, in order to avoid this problem, in the paragraphs that follow we use the terms (a) affect to refer to general positive versus negative feeling states, and (b) emotions to denote differentiated (labeled) affective states.

The Bases for Emotional Reactions to Stigmas. Stigmas often evoke both negative affective and emotional responses in others (Arrow 18), and some types of stigmas (e.g., abominations of the body, unsightly diseases) elicit more negative reactions than others (Goffman, 1963; Jones et al., 1984; Kurzban & Leary, 2001). In order to better explicate the bases for such reactions, we consider ﬁve general perspectives on emotions below. However, in advance of doing so, we note that there has been considerable controversy in psychology about whether emotional reactions to stimuli are automatic or are based upon cognitive appraisals of them (cf. Zajonc, 1980; Lazarus, 1966, 1991; Lazarus & Folkman, 1984; Lazarus et al., 1980). We recognize this controversy, but make no attempt to resolve it here.
