# Antecedents of Reputation

Reputational Aspirations Festinger (1954) hypothesized that individuals have an inherent desire to accurately evaluate their own opinions and abilities. When objective measures are not available (i.e., as is often the case in social settings), individuals often measure themselves against their colleagues. This evaluation of self will take into account not only individuals’ self-esteem, but also how others view them. It individuals gain understanding of their own reputations through the behavior reﬂected back to them by others (Emler & Hopkins, 1990). Emler (1990) suggested that reputations reﬂect information that is shared and transmitted within a social context, and thus reputations are not developed, nor do they operate, in a vacuum. As stated previously, the main reasons for engaging in reputation- building behavior are to obtain rewards, or to fulﬁll an inner desire to convey to others around them a message concerning who individuals think they are (Baumeister, 1982a, 1982b).

is argued that

Whether this drive is external (i.e., an attempt to gain external rewards) or internal (i.e., brought on by a desire to establish an identity in a group), the process of reputation building is the same. These aspirations are based on personal desires, and, as such, are subjective. That being said, individuals often will observe the treatment and rewards others receive, and wish the same for themselves. In doing so, they attempt to attribute what actions the individual (or group) is performing in order to receive these rewards, and then may try to emulate such actions in hopes of receiving the same treatment (Schunk, 1987).

Selection of Referents Early research on social comparisons in organizational behavior suggested that individuals assess their situation using essentially the three referents of other, self, and system (Goodman, 1974), which may differentially affect the attitudes and behavior of those individuals. However, subsequent work in this area has identiﬁed a number of different referents used by individuals, including self-present, self-past, self-future, and other (i.e., past, present, and future). Indeed, Kulik and Ambrose (1992) identiﬁed twelve different potential referent categories.