# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

both cross-sectional and longitudinal designed, is therefore needed to answer this ﬁrst set of research questions:

(cid:4) What static variables have stable relationships with job performance? (cid:4) What static variables have changing relationships with job performance? (cid:4) What dynamic variables have stable relationships with job performance? (cid:4) What dynamic variables have changing relationships with job performance?

Searching for the predictors of performance and estimating the functional forms of their relationships with job performance require a variety of methodological approaches. Longitudinal analyses can examine within- person relationships to help answer the above questions. It is likely, though, that obtaining such data will be difﬁcult, and any longitudinal analyses will suffer from methodological limitations (including missing data, multiple sources of error, and potentially low power). Therefore, I recommend that future research answering the questions above should be complemented with cross-sectional research. Research capturing a snap-shot of performance relationships will help identify the variables that relate to performance. Furthermore, any longitudinal model should include predictions as to what such a model implies for a point in time, and these hypotheses should be tested. Failure to support the point-in-time predictions from longitudinal models would falsify the model. Consequently, such tests are critical for theory development. Given the many difﬁculties associated with longitudinal studies of job performance, it would slow the potential progress of the ﬁeld to ignore the value of appropriately designed cross-sectional research.