---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ba7ff7e8dae5e78d119cf47748e1e45e63d27c59
title: '13'
---
## Fig. 2. Taking Stock of Context Effects in Diversity Research.

organizational variables. Both these factors can render the effects of dive- rsity non-signiﬁcant. A number of diversity studies we reviewed were conducted in white male dominated settings (e.g., Jackson & Joshi, 2004; Kochan et al., 2003). In these settings we are unlikely to ﬁnd a full range of team diversity attributes. Not surprisingly, these studies do not yield signiﬁcant relationships between team gender or race diversity and process or performance outcomes. Thus, aspects of the research context such as the demographics of the occupation represented in the sample could set limits on the range of gender or ethnic diversity that we might ﬁnd in teams, leading to the possibility of null ﬁndings. As indicated in Table 3, the top two industries in which ﬁeld research has been conducted are – manufacturing (18%) and information processing and technology (14%). These are both male-dominated settings restricting the range as well as the base rates of team diversity variables. Like occupational demo graphy, organizational demography can also restrict the range of diversity variables within teams. In white male dominated organizations, the possibility of ﬁnding a full range of gender and ethnic diversity within the team would be low, thereby rendering the effects of team diversity non-signiﬁcant.

Country location may also pose similar constraints. Although a bulk of research we reviewed was conducted in the North American context (57% of the studies reviewed and possibly more studies that did not specify location were also conducted in the US), the small percentage of studies that were conducted outside the US in Europe (7%) or in Asia (1%) showed non- signiﬁcant relationships for certain aspects of diversity. As the frontiers of management research cross North American boundaries understanding

35

36
