# Culture and Motivational Mechanisms

Face and Humor One of the more important drivers of communication norms in many cultures is the concept of ‘face.’ Face refers to ‘‘a claimed sense of favorable social self- worth that a person wants others to have of her or him’’ (Ting-Toomey & Kurogi, 1998, p.187). The importance of face is thought to be universal, as is the perception that face is a vulnerable resource because it can be easily enhanced or threatened in social interactions. Politeness theory (Brown & Levinson, 1987) contends that humor might be an important tool for saving the face of both speakers and listeners, because it can be used to camouﬂage otherwise face-threatening aggressive or insulting communication, to indicate solidarity, and to help avoid conﬂict by releasing repressed feelings (Holmes, 2000). In other words, individuals might be motivated to use humor that can ‘‘mask’’ communications, which, unvarnished, are likely to harm the face of the speaker or listener. Consider the following example:

The boss turns to an employee who was absent from work the previous day: Tell me what happened yesterday, but don’t forget that your grandmother has already died twice. (Ziv, 1984, p. 34)

In this example, the boss is asking for the subordinate’s explanation for absence, but in the interest of maintaining solidarity, the boss avoids being overtly challenging and conveys dissatisfaction by an indirect route. The humorous approach helps the subordinate save face and softens the situation with little loss of underlying message.

Although the use of humor as a face-saving technique is likely common and universal, the extent to which this function of humor is practiced might differ across cultures. Conversational constraints theory (Kim, 1993) contends that individualist and collectivist societies have different levels of preferences for face-saving behaviors. In collectivistic societies, individuals’ sense of identity is deﬁned substantially by their interdependent relations with others. Because interpersonal harmony and preference for afﬁliation are strongly emphasized, collectivists have a stronger preference for face- saving behaviors in conversation than do individualists. This is supported by

237

238