## A Multilevel Framework for Work Team Diversity Research

deﬁne diversity as an aggregate group level construct that represents differences among members of an interdependent work group with respect to a speciﬁc personal attribute (Harrison & Klein, 2007; Jackson et al., 2003). In the broader domain of management literature, context is deﬁned as the situational setting in which workplace phenomena occur (Cappelli & Sherer, 1991). This paper aims at providing a template for future research that might consider how various aspects of the situational setting can shape the outcomes of diversity in work groups.

Current theoretical perspectives framing diversity research, such as social identity theory, social categorization theory, or the attraction-selection- attrition framework, offer explanations for why differences within work groups may manifest in speciﬁc attitudinal outcomes such as conﬂict or cohesion or behavioral outcomes such as turnover or absenteeism (see Jackson et al., 2003). In general, current applications of these theoretical perspectives in diversity research have been a – contextual, that is, they have been applied to offer broad generalizations across various dimensions of diversity and across a wide array of work group and organizational outcomes. However, without considering the boundary conditions that may be relevant to these theoretical perspectives, they provide only insufﬁcient explanations for the diversity dynamics under consideration. In addition to ‘‘why’’ diversity manifests in speciﬁc outcomes, a careful examination of the situational setting would also incorporate ‘‘what’’, ‘‘when’’, ‘‘where’’, and ‘‘how’’, diversity dynamics unfold in the workplace; these contextual considerations are not often captured in studies (see Johns, 2006) and are pertinent for reconciling the mixed ﬁndings from past research.

To illustrate the role of context in explaining the mixed ﬁndings of past research, let us consider a recent set of studies that examined the effects of team demographic diversity on performance outcomes in ﬁeld settings. Kochan et al. (2003) recently published a report on four ﬁeld studies that considered various aspects of diversity in relation to performance outcomes. All four studies were conducted in organizations that had implemented diversity management practices for several years. Consistently, across these four studies, the authors reported few signiﬁcant main effects of diversity on team performance. Overall, gender diversity had either a weak positive effect or a non-signiﬁcant relationship with objective indicators of performance. Racial diversity had a weak negative relationship with team performance. In general, ﬁndings were stronger for the effects of diversity on process outcomes rather than performance outcomes. Other ﬁeld research also reports similar mixed ﬁndings (e.g., Kirkman, Tesluk, & Rosen, 2004; Pelled, Eisenhardt, & Xin, 1999).

3

4