## Toward a Theory of Reputation in Organizations

knowledge is regarding the same topic. If individuals or groups decide that the subject has advanced knowledge or skills, they will defer to the subject regarding that topic. Like referent power, expert power is not based on intimidation or external pressure, but a giving of the power by others.

As individuals gain reputation, they gain power (Pfeffer, 1992). However, because reputation is a social construct, the direct power gained will not be legitimate. Additionally, both reward and coercive power are based on the individual’s ability to reward and punish others. This power may come from not only formal but also informal authority, and the authority to delegate tasks is an example of these powers. In order for a subject to act in such a manner, a certain level of autonomy ﬁrst must be gained (e.g., if an individual is being closely monitored by a supervisor, this behavior may, or may not, be allowed). Therefore, it is proposed that although reputation can bring about coercive and reward power, it does so through autonomy (and career success), and therefore is not a direct outcome of reputation.

Job Performance. We propose that reputation affects job performance, which is often measured by subjective ratings by a supervisor. Supervisor ratings have been known to be inﬂuenced by others, whereby inﬂuence tactics have been found to affect performance ratings, even when there are no actual differences in job performance. Furthermore, such ratings have been shown to be biased, distorted, and often not reﬂective of actual job performance (e.g., Ferris & Judge, 1991; Higgins, Judge, & Ferris, 2003). Because reputation is used to ﬁll in where perfect information is not available, managers may use reputation to rate employees on related areas (see Thorndike, 1920 for an explanation of halo effect).

The idea that individuals may try to manage their reputations by getting others to evaluate them on the basis of process measures, such as effort, rather than outcomes, such as actual objective results, is not a new idea (e.g., March, 1984; Ferris et al., 1994). When individuals are hired based on reputation, they are paid more then their counterparts who lack such reputation (Wade et al., 2006). Because the reputation implies expertise in a speciﬁc area (Haviland, 1977), individuals with strong, positive reputations often may be given higher goals by their superiors as justiﬁcation for the higher pay. Even if those reputable individuals do not accomplish the goals set forth, supervisors will still often rate high-reputation individuals higher than those with lesser goals, regardless of fulﬁlment of the goals set (Dossett & Greenberg, 1981). Furthermore, the more ambiguous the performance criteria, the more likely an enhanced reputation may affect evaluations (Eisenberg, 1984; Williams & Goss, 1975).

189

190

ROBERT ZINKO ET AL.

Compensation. Compensation has been linked to reputation in a number of studies (i.e., Wade et al., 2006; Zajac & Westphal, 1995). There are several ways that compensation can be evaluated to include actual money paid as well as symbolic and status-enhancing indicators sent out about the individual in question. Managers have been shown to award higher pay raises to subordinates when the managers were dependent on the subordinates’ expertise. This implies that a reputation for expertness is directly related to ﬁnancial reward (Bartol & Martin, 1990). Furthermore, empirical research has shown that those with a stronger reputation receive more rewards than their counterparts (Wade et al., 2006).

Indirect Outcomes Promotions and Career Success. Promotions are considered some of the most political decisions made in organizations (e.g., Ferris & Judge, 1991). Early impressions by decision makers are said to affect this process greatly. Similarly, reputations can have considerable inﬂuence early on, due to lack of information that is available regarding the individual. The effects of these ﬁrst impressions can be seen in the discussion of tournament mobility, and how people get positioned and can inﬂuence their ability to be successful in such competitions (e.g., Cooper, Graham, & Dyke, 1993; Rosenbaum, 1989).

Furthermore, as individuals are promoted at a rapid rate, they may gain a reputation as being ‘‘on the fast track.’’ In such situations, these rising stars may enter into a loop of being promoted based on reputation, which gives the individual a more powerful reputation due to fast promotion, which leads to more promotions. Modeled after the idea that power brings more power (Pfeffer, 1981), those with strong, positive reputations may see not only faster promotions, but also other forms of career mobility.

Mobility suggests not only vertical movement though a single organiza- tion, but also passage through different positions, perhaps in a number of different organizations, over a reasonably extended period of time (e.g., over a person’s entire career). The number of moves over a speciﬁed time period is not the focal issue, but the nature of the positions obtained as well as the quality of the organizations at which one accepts positions are indicators of reputation.

Subjective Well-Being. Exploration into the subject of reputation suggests that almost all individuals strive for what they perceive to be a positive reputation. It has been suggested that this desire to be admired by ones peers is a basic drive to gain contentment (Caste & Burke, 2002). Subjective