---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: df46d2e66dd0208f960ab9437e8734012789cd44
title: '13'
---
# ð1Þ

Where B1 and B3 are stable coefﬁcients over time, and B2 and B4 change over time (as signiﬁed above with the addition of (t) in the subscript; the bold indicates matrices of characteristics and coefﬁcients).

The above model shows the problem associated with using cross-sectional data to consider longitudinal phenomena. Speciﬁcally, in any sort of cross- sectional analysis, one cannot observe changes within subjects across time. This means that when examining the results of any analysis, one will be unable to distinguish between the stable and dynamic betas or between stable and dynamic characteristics. As such, the coefﬁcients derived from any model may be accurate, but may not generalize to even the same subjects at a different point in time. This condition limits the potential value of cross-sectional analyses when considering longitudinal phenomena. As will be discussed later, though, this does not mean that cross-sectional research is of no value. Nonetheless, the above model cannot be explicitly tested as shown. One may be able to employ other research to distinguish between the stable and dynamic characteristics, but it remains impossible to know the functional form of the dynamic betas.

To help understand where time plays a role in the prediction of job performance, perhaps the easiest adjustment to the above model is to consider lagged measures of job performance. By using a lagged measure of job performance, one can derive a simpler model that can help focus attention on the dynamic factors associated with job performance. That is, if one is modeling P(t), and subtracts P(t(cid:2)1) from each side of the equation, one gets the following:

Pt (cid:2) Pðt(cid:2)1Þ ¼ B0t þ B1 (cid:1) S þ B2ðtÞ (cid:1) S þ B3 (cid:1) DðtÞ
