---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: bb0a44b9a7deebb5c6e742ce9400d7c0fa384619
title: '13'
---
# ABOUT THE AUTHORS

Fred R. Blass is an Assistant in Management at Florida State University. He received a Ph.D. in Management from Florida State University, and before joining the faculty at Florida State, served on the Department of Manage- ment faculty at the United States Air Force Academy. Blass has research interests in power and inﬂuence in organizations and organizational socialization. He has published his research in such journals as Human Resource Management and The Leadership Quarterly. Also, he has presented his research at both national and regional professional conferences.

Donald E. Conlon is the Eli Broad Professor of Management and Chairperson of the Department of Management at the Eli Broad College of Business at Michigan State University. He received his Ph.D. in business administration from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His justice, conﬂict and negotiation, research focuses on organizational managerial decision-making, and the effects of context on customer perceptions of service exchanges. Recent publications have appeared in the Academy of Management Journal, Journal of Applied Psychology, and the International Journal of Conﬂict Management.

Russell Cropanzano is the Brien Lesk Professor of Organizational Behavior at the University of Arizona’s Eller College of Management. He received his Ph.D. from Purdue University. Dr. Cropanzano’s primary research areas include perceptions of organizational justice as well as on the experience and impact of workplace emotion. He has edited four books, presented over 60 papers, and published roughly 80 scholarly articles and chapters. In addition, he is a co-author (with Robert Folger) of the book Organizational Justice and Human Resources Management, which won the 1998 Book Award from the International Association of Conﬂict Management. Dr. Cropanzano was also a winner of the 2000 Outstanding Paper Award from the Consulting Psychology Journal. He is currently editor of the Journal of Management, a fellow in the Society for Industrial/Organizational Psychology, and Representative-at-Large for the Organizational Behavior Division of the Academy of Management.

351

352
