---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 796566b8302643113fa6edb7b6c8f3b97d0a928d
title: '13'
---
# Berry, J. W.

(1990). Psychology of acculturation. In: J. Berman (Ed.), Cross-cultural perspectives: Nebraska symposium on motivation (pp. 201–234). Lincoln, NB: University of Nebraska Press.

Berry, J. W. (1995). Psychology of acculturation. In: N. R. Goldberger & J. B. Veroff (Eds), The

culture and psychology reader (pp. 457–488). New York: New York University Press.

Blascovich, J., Mendes, W. B., Hunter, S. B., Lickel, B., & Kowai-Bell, N. (2001). Perceiver threat in social interactions with stigmatized others. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 80, 253–267.

Bodenhausen, G. V. (1993). Emotions, arousal, and stereotypic judgments: A heuristic model of affect and stereotyping. In: D. M. Mackie & D. L. Hamilton (Eds), Affect, cognition, and stereotyping: Interactive processes in group perception (pp. 13–37). San Diego, CA: Academic Press.

Bodenhausen, G. V., & Macrae, C. N. (1996). The self-regulation of intergroup perception: Mechanisms and consequences of stereotype suppression. In: C. N. Macrae, C. Stangor & M. Hewstone (Eds), Stereotypes and stereotyping (pp. 227–253). New York: Guilford Press. Bornstein, R. F. (1993). Mere exposure effects with outgroup stimuli. In: D. M. Mackie & D.L. Hamilton (Eds), Affect, cognition, and stereotyping: Interactive processes in group perception (pp. 195–238). San Diego, CA: Academic Press.

Brewer, M. B. (1988). A dual process model of impression formation. In: T. S. Srull & R. S.

Wyer (Eds), Advances in social cognition (Vol. 1, pp. 1–36). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.

Brewer, M. B., & Kramer, R. M. (1985). The psychology of intergroup attitudes and behavior.
