---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b8190ddf6eba55ee5a4faf8ee4be67cf4459c4c2
title: '13'
---
## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

work by Holmes (2000) also found that supervisors’ use of negative humor was often intended to maintain power differentials.

However, Malone (1980) noted that a dominant downward direction of humor, particularly aggressive humor, might start to change as organizations move toward less hierarchical structures. Indeed, a number of studies conducted since 1980 support his prediction. For example, Duncan (1984) found that substantial differences across organizations in downward and upward humor use could be partially accounted for by the degree of employees’ acceptance of hierarchical differences. Vinton (1989) also found that although supervisors frequently used teasing humor instead of direct orders to help get things done, they did so to help maintain a collegial atmosphere that was also supported by the acceptance of lower level employees targeting managers as the butt of humor.

One way in which humor might be directed upward within organizational hierarchies is through the use of subversive humor. To some extent, that subversive humor is the antithesis of a motivation to control characterizes aggressive humor. Subversive humor is motivated by a desire to destabilize power structures and challenge dominant behavioral norms (Linstead, 1985). Unlike aggressive humor, subversive humor is more often veiled or indirect, and relies on the fact that humor can mask otherwise unacceptable challenges to the establishment (Holmes & Marra, 2002a). Indeed, Ullian (1976) notes that because humor is an indirect form of communication ‘‘the joker is protected from being charged with the responsibility for the serious content or the implications of the joke’’ (p. 129). The use of humor by subordinates for the purpose of subverting and resisting the formal hierarchy are themes that have emerged from a number of empirical studies. For example, Collinson (1988) describes how shop-ﬂoor workers in a truck factory employed humor that served to resist that status system and organizational control. Similarly, Rodrigues and Collinson (1995) document an instance of subversive humor in the publication and dissemination of a humorous newspaper that was highly critical of the management in a Brazilian telecommunications ﬁrm. Taylor and Bain (2003) noted that ‘pure clowning’ was relatively rare in the two call centers they studied, whereas considerable mocking and ridicule directed at managers was common. They suggested that it was intentionally designed to undermine authority and subvert company culture. Finally, Holmes and Marra (2002a) found that subversive humor is much more common in work groups where hierarchical relationships are present than in friendship groups where maintenance of solidarity is stressed. In the work groups they studied, the person with the most status was often the

215

216
