---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c0f7a9aa55704e375528808196f3dfb78b9b1771
title: '13'
---
## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

the history of the literature, three deﬁnitions generally prevailed. Two deﬁnitions involve evidence from the individual-level of analysis; the third about changes at the group-level.

First, performance dynamism may be deﬁned as occurring when the rank- ordering of scores on the criterion change over time (Barrett, Caldwell, & Alexander, 1985; Deadrick & Madigan, 1990; Hanges, Schneider, & Niles, 1990). This deﬁnition of dynamic performance has most often led to the examination of correlations between criterion scores at multiple points in time. Such studies have been framed as considering the test–retest reliability or the stability of performance ratings.

Second, performance dynamism has been deﬁned as occurring when predictor validities change over time (Austin, Humphreys, & Hulin, 1989; Barrett et al., 1985; Ghiselli, 1956; MacKinney, 1967; Prien, 1966; Smith, 1976; Steele-Johnson et al., 2000). Research using this deﬁnition has focused on examinations of the validity of selection devices for predicting job performance of employees over multiple time periods. Some have argued that a dynamic criterion would lead to a decrease in validity over time (Austin et al., 1989); others have suggested that simply the ﬂuctuation of validity is evidence of a dynamic criterion (Barrett et al., 1985); still others have argued that dynamic criteria could lead to predictors becoming more valid with time (Ackerman, 1987; Murphy, 1989).

Third, performance dynamism has been deﬁned as changes over time in the average level of group performance (Barrett et al., 1985; Hanges et al., 1990). This deﬁnition has been criticized as the weakest conceptually and operationally (Barrett et al., 1985). In part, average performance curves may not reﬂect the shape of the individual performance curves comprising them. Group-level performance could even change when individuals’ performance remains constant if the performance level of those leaving the organization were different than the performance level of those entering (Boudreau & Berger, 1985).

Proposed Deﬁnition of Dynamic Performance The three deﬁnitions for dynamic performance present an interesting divergent set of ways of considering performance over time, and the use of any single deﬁnition has often led to very different research tasks. The problem with these deﬁnitions is that they do not present a logically consistent set of classiﬁcations. That is, it is possible for the ﬁrst condition to be met without meeting the second or third deﬁnitions. Similarly, the third deﬁnition could be met without meeting the ﬁrst two. The reason this occurs is that the second and third deﬁnitions consider the potential consequences of dynamic

53

54
