---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f38edaad154bc77f23720ded94640cb302174bf4
title: '13'
---
## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

‘‘[your leader] uses a funny story to turn an argument in his or her favor.’’ This style of measurement essentially assesses the underlying social motives of the humor producer.

Although researchers have identiﬁed at least 24 different motives for using humor (Graham, Papa, & Brooks, 1992), at a broad level of generalization a fundamental distinction is often made between humorous communications that are intended to have positive effects on the audience, and those intended to have negative effects. Empirically, motivations for using humor in negative and positive contexts appear to be clearly distinguishable (e.g., Cooper, 2002; Graham et al., 1992; Sala, 2000), and perhaps higher order factors. In the two sections below, we describe some of the major positive and negative motivations for humor use discussed in the literature.

Before doing that, however, an important clariﬁcation must be made about the ‘positive’ and ‘negative’ humor distinction. Numerous authors have noted that humor has two sides (e.g., Davis & Kleiner, 1989). Malone (1980) referred to humor as being a ‘‘double-edged sword,’’ alluding to the fact that while humor is typically seen as positive, it has the potential to be used for negative or destructive purposes. Similarly, Martineau (1972) observed that humor can have abrasive as well as lubricant properties in social interactions. These sentiments are undoubtedly consistent with most peoples’ experience. However, it is important to distinguish between the humor that is employed and the underlying intention or motivation for employing it. Assigning the label ‘‘negative humor’’ to a communication that employs humor to convey a negative message is something like blaming the messenger. That is, the negativity is really a characteristic of the underlying motivation for the communication. We suggest that the term ‘‘negative humor’’ might best describe humor that is used as a tool or device to help send certain types of negative messages more effectively. Indeed, humor employed to send negative messages might soften the blow of an offensive or hostile message that might otherwise cause an aggressive response from the audience (Caron, 2002).

As an example, imagine that a manager is upset with his/her subordinate who shows up late for work for a third day in a row. In a tone dripping with sarcasm the manager tells the subordinate, ‘‘oh, you’re a model employee.’’ This statement has the form of humor because of the incongruity between the implicit and explicit messages (a point we return to later), and indeed, such a communication would likely be labeled by most as ‘‘negative humor.’’ But using the term ‘‘negative humor’’ implies that the humor is the culprit, and that removing it will remove the negativity. However, humor is probably just one of a number of tools that the communicator can use to express his/her

211

212
