---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4fd83ba907a091bdaf93f4a6171df45a1c20c554
title: '13'
---
## The Happy/Productive Worker Thesis Revisited

Hersey, 1929, 1930, 1932a, 1932b), we propose psychological well-being (PWB) as providing a greater measure of support for better understanding and explaining this ‘‘Holy Grail’’ management thesis.

This resurgence of research on PWB, the focus of the present review, confronts contemporary scholars and human resource professionals with an interesting challenge: The possibility that there are at least two happy/ productive worker theses – with job satisfaction and PWB each serving as operationalizations of employee happiness. In the pages that follow, we will explore these ideas in greater detail, and propose to the reader the possibility that these two operationalizations of happiness work together to maximize job effectiveness. First, we provide a deﬁnition of happiness. Second, the theoretical basis for why happiness (however, deﬁned) is related to job performance and job retention decisions is introduced. Third, we provide a brief overview of research purporting job satisfaction–job performance and job satisfaction–job retention/withdrawal relationships. the literature on PWB. Fifth, and based upon Then, we discuss Fredrickson’s (1998, 2001) broaden-and-build framework, we provide the theoretical framework for integrating the job satisfaction and PWB approaches to worker ‘‘happiness’’ by proposing that PWB may well act as a moderator to job satisfaction when considering either job perfor- mance and employee retention. Finally, both theoretical and practical implications of this possibility for human resource professionals are introduced.

Before commencing, however, we want to note that our ‘‘accentuate the positive’’ approach is not intended to ‘‘negate the negative.’’ Certainly, we acknowledge the existence of scholarly research demonstrating that negative emotions and mood states can lead to enhanced productivity on some tasks, under certain situations. For example, Schwarz and Clore’s (1993) feelings- as-information approach proposes that unpleasant moods can enhance systematic information processing that, to performance in such monitoring-related tasks as computer programming. In addition, Forgas’ (1995) affect infusion model (AIM) and Martin, Ward, Achee, and Wyer’s (1993) mood-as-input model also propose the basis by which unpleasant moods may enhance performance. As a ﬁnal example, there is evidence that negative moods can enhance creativity (George & Zhou, 2002). Relatedly, we are not proposing that the beneﬁts of a positive perspective are without limits or constraints. In fact, research indicates that there may well be an upper limit to the possible beneﬁts of adopting a positive approach (Fredrickson & Losada, 2005). That stated, our primary purpose is to call attention to the oft-neglected notion that ‘‘happiness’’ (as opposed to

in turn, can be relevant

271

272
