---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 927de70d8d6ba7d6b3c882123e1132c1e6552e22
title: '13'
---
## A Multilevel Framework for Work Team Diversity Research

and interact with dissimilar group members. Their ﬁndings indicate that diversity was negatively associated with processes under conditions of higher group longevity. Diversity was positively associated with group processes among ‘‘younger’’ teams. This result is contradictory to the general pattern of results reported by Harrison and colleagues and suggests that the manner in which time is measured at the discrete level may inﬂuence the nature of the moderating effect. Further in the present business context, where teams are constantly being reconﬁgured and individuals work on multiple teams simultaneously, it may be pertinent to also examine other aspects of team tenure such as tenure volatility which captures the variation (rather than the central tendency) in team members’ tenure in the team.

Team Dispersion Organizations are increasingly implementing geographically dispersed teams to cut costs and increase efﬁciency and customer responsiveness (Apgar, 1998). Given the growing prevalence of these teams, the role of team dispersion as a contextual antecedent of diversity-related outcomes is becoming increasingly relevant. Based on the premise that status and social inﬂuence are more likely to pervade face-to-face interactions than computer- mediated settings (which are considered more depersonalized), researchers have contrasted face-to-face groups with computer-mediated groups to examine whether the nature of participation varied in these two settings. In general, these studies ﬁnd that the use of computer-mediated communica- tions in groups reduces social inhibitions and equalizes participation (Sproull & Kiesler, 1986). In comparing gender diverse face-to-face versus computer-mediated groups, Bhappu, Grifﬁth, and Northcraft (1997) also found that inter-group bias was lower in computer-mediated settings. In contrast, other research shows that the medium of communication itself did not alter social inﬂuence processes; status and social inﬂuence-based effects were as likely to occur in face-to-face groups as in computer-mediated groups (e.g., Weisband, Schneider, & Connolly, 1995). In this study, the authors’ ﬁndings suggest that ‘‘even in the relatively impoverished social context of anonymous computer interaction, when high-status members were aware that a low-status member was in their group, the former made assumptions about the (latter’s) identity’’ (Weisband et al., 1995, p. 1146). The study suggests that the speciﬁc mechanisms by which status manifests in computer-mediated and dispersed settings needs further investigation. In light of these research ﬁndings, we propose that dispersion may be considered a critical aspect of context raising several interesting research questions for future investigation.

19

20
