## Toward a Theory of Reputation in Organizations

comprehend how individuals perceive the actions of others (Salancik & Pfeffer, 1978). Individuals receive a set of cues that are based on social norms and expectations as input. The person’s behavioral response to the cues occurs as a function of a mental processes that begins with encoding of those cues through sensation and perception. Most of the cues are inputted via selective attention, so the storage of cues in memory is not consistent with objective experience. This selective encoding is partially predictive of how the individual will respond to the observed situation.

The mental representation and interpretation of the cues (e.g., possibly involving attributions about cause) is dependent on the environment in which the cues were received. Once the stimulus cues are absorbed, the individual retrieves one or more possible behavioral responses from memory. The ﬁnal step of processing is response evaluation and decision- making. This is where the individual evaluates the situation and decides how to respond (Dodge & Coie, 1987).

Salancik and Pfeffer (1978) used social information processing theory to explain job attitudes as they relate to job design. They suggested that when approaching a job, part of the worker comes from experiences as well as how others portray the position. The emphasis on the social environment in explaining how individuals view jobs can be applied to how reputation is viewed. Ferris and Mitchell (1987) suggested that social information processing theory applies to self-monitoring in that it applies a set of conditions where individuals can alter their actions depending on the environment.