# the attitude of

This suggests that individuals may behave in certain ways in attempts to build speciﬁc reputations (Bromley, 1993). It is based on the understanding that others will use social information processing to explain the actions of individuals attempting to build reputations. Those actions can be used to communicate a speciﬁc social message that will be interpreted in light of the contextual backdrop within which both the individual and the audience interact and operate (Elmer, 1984).

Social Contagion Theory Social contagion theory is ‘‘the spontaneous spread of emotional and behavioral reactions among a group of people’’ (Yukl, 1998, p. 307). This theory suggests that organizational actors engage in a form of social ‘talk’ that allows them to arrive at a shared, socially constructed interpretation of their social environment. This social interaction not only works as a shared sense-making mechanism, but also helps collectively deﬁne the meaning of events (Degoey, 2000). This also explains the phenomenon that rumors are

171

172

ROBERT ZINKO ET AL.

more often believed than are formal communications in organizations (Robbins, 2000).

Social contagion theory has been used to help explain such phenomena as job satisfaction (Krackhardt & Porter, 1985), feelings of levels of organizational commitment (Hartman & Johnson, 1989), and attributions regarding leadership (Meindl, 1990). In the case of personal reputation, social contagion helps explain not only the construct of reputation, but also the transference of reputation. Because reputation is a socially constructed concept (Ferris et al, 2003), which is transferred by informal conversations such as gossip (Elmer, 1984), agreement by others regarding its meaning is essential. Social contagion theory explains this agreement. Furthermore, because the audience that is agreeing upon the reputation of another may not actually be in direct contact with the reputation-building individual (Bromley, 1993), this shared, socially constructed interpretation of a reputation is essential.

Communication Theory Basic communication theory is based on the sender-message-receiver communication model. Modern day adaptations take into account the various codes and subcodes that make up society, and allow for intermediaries or multiple source senders or receivers (Stern, 1994). In the case of personal reputation, the sender must consider not only the immediate audience, but also the context, environment, and possible intermediaries. In the ﬁeld of management, attempts at communicating reputation most often have been referred to as signaling (e.g., Ferris et al., 2003; Tsui, 1984).

Signaling theory states that individuals coexist in markets of exchange, and that individuals signal others in these markets in attempts to transmit information or alter beliefs of others. In an effort to differentiate between potential and actual signals, Spence (1973, 1974) argued that potential signals represent observable, alterable characteristics, and actual signals are potential signals that inﬂuence others. Using this argument, reputation can be viewed as an actual signal because it represents observable and alterable characteristics that inﬂuence others.

It has been argued that reputation can be construed as an intentional effort at signaling (e.g., Ferris & Judge, 1991; Carroll et al., 2003). More speciﬁcally, reputation builders send as signals to others, and these signals tend to be more political than scientiﬁc in that they attempt to inﬂuence perceptions and meaning. Ferris, Hochwarter, Buckley, Harrell-Cook, and Frink (1999) suggested that reputations may be shaped or inﬂuenced by the