---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 30da80bf95a7018ed4f75db1ee22d318fa779a93
title: '13'
---
## communication. Management Science, 32, 1492–1512.

Taylor, M. C. (1998). How white attitudes vary with the racial composition of local

populations: Numbers count. American Sociological Review, 63, 512–535.

Tomaskovic-Devey, D. (1993). The gender and race composition of jobs and the male/female,

white/black pay gaps. Social Forces, 72, 45–76.

Triandis, H. C. (1994). Culture and social behavior. New York: McGraw-Hill. Turner, J. C., & Haslam, A. (2001). Social identity, organizations and leadership. In: M. Turner (Ed.), Groups at work: Theory and research (pp. 25–65). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.

Van Der Vegt, G. S., Van De Vliert, E., & Huang, X. (2005). Location-level links between diversity and innovative climate depend on national power distance. Academy of Management Journal, 48, 1171–1182.

Van Knippenberg, D., & Schippers, M. C. (2007). Workgroup diversity. Annual Review of

Psychology, 58, 2.1–2.27.

Weisband, S. P., Schneider, S. K., & Connolly, T. (1995). Computer-mediated communication and social information: Status salience and status differences. Academy of Management Journal, 38, 1124–1151.

Wharton, A. (1992). The social construction of gender and race in organizations: A social identity and group mobilization perspective. In: P. Tolbert & S. Bacharach (Eds), Research in the sociology of organizations (Vol. 10, pp. 55–84). Greenwich, CT: JAI Press.

Williams, K., & O’Reilly, C. A. (1998). Demography and diversity in organizations: A review of 40 years of research. In: B. M. Staw & L. L. Cummings (Eds), Research in organizational behavior (Vol. 20, pp. 77–140). Greenwich, CT: JAI Press.
