---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b7c29ad623ff02680257feefb3ee74c94965c2c2
title: '13'
---
# MICHAEL C. STURMAN

leaving (Trevor et al., 1997; Salamin & Hom, 2005), this would further restrict the distribution. Methodologically, this creates heteroskedasticity. More generally, it limits any potential causal implications that can be made when interpreting the interaction or differences across cohorts. Of course, this assumption can be tested in any given sample, such as by examining the distribution of the characteristic at various experience levels (e.g., using a median split). If not statistically signiﬁcantly different, one may have some conﬁdence that this ﬁrst assumption holds.

the independent variable included in the model does not speciﬁcally cause turnover, a second reason that the mean levels of a predictor may change with time is that the distribution of an independent selection processes. The variable may become restricted because of Attraction-Selection-Attrition (ASA) model (Schneider, 1987) suggests that through the process of recruitment, selection, and turnover, individuals self- select and are selected in ways that increase the similarity of individuals within the organization. This ﬁltering process may create the appearance of a relationship between these characteristics and performance. For example, even if a given characteristic, say a dimension of personality, is not related to performance, the simultaneous effects of learning for individuals who remain in the company in conjunction with the increase in homogeneity of individuals within the company over time could cause an interaction of the characteristic and time to appear signiﬁcant. Again, this concern may be tested by examining the distribution of the characteristic in question for various levels of the temporal variable.
