---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4811dcd9755ca366a6a3ea6c4f2bc5c3c5483b9c
title: '13'
---
# Predicting Performance Trends

The most recent development in the dynamic performance literature has been the examination of employee performance trends. This new line of research presents a shift in the focus of dynamic performance research to investigations of individual change patterns (Hofmann et al., 1993).

The goal of this line of research is to model within-person patterns of performance and to understand what affects these patterns. By its nature, this research is interested in the prediction of job performance at more than one point in time (Ployhart, Holtz, & Bliese, 2002). The early work in this area simply demonstrated that modeling individual performance trends was possible. Performance trends were shown to be systematic, and hence predictable (Hofmann et al., 1992, 1993). Research in this area then expanded on this ﬁnding by similarly modeling performance trends, but also considering individual-level characteristics which predict the level and slope of these trends (Deadrick et al., 1997). Later research expanded both the complexity of the performance trend model (to non-linear patterns) and the types of predictors used to explain the trends (Day, Sin, & Chen, 2004; Ployhart & Hakel, 1998; Stewart & Nandkeolyar, 2006; Thoresen, Bradley, Bliese, & Thoresen, 2004).

Related to this stream of research has been the work examining the consequences of performance trends. Some research has examined how performance trends inﬂuence the likelihood of turnover (Harrison, Virick, & William, 1996; Sturman & Trevor, 2001). Both studies found that changes in subsequent performance scores affected the likelihood of turnover, and Sturman and Trevor (2001) showed that even after controlling for this change, long-term performance trends also predicted turnover. This research shows that performance changes (short-term and long-term) may be valuable

59

60
