# circumstances, and a comparison of

169

170

ROBERT ZINKO ET AL.

standard. A standard is a conception of how things should be, such as social norms, personal goals, and expectations of others (Baumeister et al., 1994). If there is a discrepancy between the current circumstances and the standard, then the person performs a behavior directed at achieving the standard. Once the person has performed the behavior, another test is performed in order to assess whether the standard was reached (i.e., the discrepancy has been reduced). If the standard was not met, the individual continues to try to achieve the standard by repeating the process, and monitoring progress until the standard is met. When the discrepancy has been reduced, the cycle ends (Baumeister et al., 1994; Carver & Scheier, 1982).

For purposes of the present conceptualization of reputation development in organizations, we suggest a modiﬁcation of self-regulation theory in order to model the behavioral action involved in reputation building. That is, instead of adjusting one’s behavior to meet some accepted standard, we argue that individuals building reputations monitor what behavioral norms or standards happen to be, but then demonstrate behavior that deviates from that standard in some particular way designed to convey certain impressions.

Then, it is this deviation from behavioral norms that becomes salient and attracts attention by an observing audience, which begins the cognitive processing that results in reputation development. In some ways, this perspective is not dissimilar from the adaptive self-regulation approach to managerial effectiveness proposed by Tsui and Ashford (1994). However, we would argue that the standard setting that managers would attempt to achieve in order to satisfy each of their constituencies would be gauged at a level that would be considered deviations (i.e., typically in a positive direction) from behavioral norms.

Therefore, we propose an integration of social comparison and self- regulation theories brought to bear on the systematic conceptualization of the reputation development process. Individuals formulate reputational aspirations and select serve motivational, referent comparisons modeling, and social comparison evaluative objectives. Then, implementation of steps to accomplish and attain reputational objectives is conducted through self-regulation of work behavior.