# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

Omnibus diversity context is deﬁned as the overall environment relevant to all types of work groups and interactions between organizational members. This type of context sets the overall constraints within which diversity phenomena are likely to occur. Omnibus context may also be viewed as the domain of macro theoretical perspectives that highlight the role of labor market characteristics, technology, structure, and strategy in shaping organizational phenomena (House, Rousseau, & Thomas-Hunt, 1995). In the omnibus contextual domain, sociological and political perspectives would suggest that interac- tional processes within the work group are shaped by differential access to resources and power which are also reﬂected in organizational and occupa- tional demographics as well as managerial practices (for a review see Skaggs & DiTomaso, 2004). These perspectives would draw attention to both organizational characteristics such as history, demography, culture, and strategy that reﬂect differential access of demographic groups to power and resources as well as extra-organizational factors such as occupational demographics, and societal trends and events that may shape these organizational attributes (House et al., 1995; Skaggs & DiTomaso, 2004). In this paper, we further categorize omnibus contextual factors in terms of whether these variables would exert distal or proximal inﬂuences on work group outcomes. Distal omnibus factors would shape the outcomes of diversity in work groups through intermediate organizational level variables. We consider the following distal aspects of context: the industry/occupation, geographic location, national culture, and temporal factors including societal and organizational trends and events that can potentially shape diversity- related outcomes. Proximal omnibus context incorporates variables within the organizational domain that may be shaped by distal factors and serves to ﬁlter the effects of distal omnibus context on the discrete diversity context. These factors include but are not necessarily limited to organizational demography, culture, history, and business strategy.

the organizational environment,

The discrete diversity context may be an outcome of the overall omnibus context and pertains to the immediate environment in which interpersonal interactions between diverse team members occur. Micro-theoretical per- spectives that explain behavior within the work group entity such as social categorization theory or the attraction-selection-attrition framework would be relevant theoretical perspectives at the discrete level. Following an input- process-output framework, a bulk of diversity research has focused on team demographic composition as an input that manifests in speciﬁc processes such as communication, cohesion, or conﬂict that, in turn, manifest in perfo- rmance outcomes (Jackson et al., 2003; Williams & O’Reilly, 1998). Based on