## Cognitive, Affective, and Cultural Inﬂuences on Stigmatization

observers will treat individuals who are marked less favorably than people who are free of stigmas (Stone-Romero & Stone, 2005).

Examples of Cultural Differences in Fair Treatment. Although our SIO model does not show an explicit link between system culture and the way targets are treated, this relation deserves consideration. More speciﬁcally, we believe that system culture is an important determinant of the treatment accorded targets. One reason for this is that cultural values play a key role in determining allocation norms in both society and in organizational settings. For example, although norms in the U.S. dictate that outcomes should be allocated on the basis of equity or proportionality, allocation norms vary considerably across cultures. In this regard, Deutsch (1975) argued that fairness judgments may be based on such principles as equity, equality or need, depending on the society’s relative emphases on the goals of production, social harmony, and humanitarianism. In accordance with this view, Wetherell (1982) showed that individuals from collective cultures were more likely to believe that outcomes should be allocated on the basis of equality than equity (proportionality). In addition, Rasinski (1987) found evidence of a relation between an individual’s values and his or her preferences for outcome allocations based on equity, equality or need. Overall, what extant research shows is that whereas equity is the dominant allocation norm in Western cultures, equality or need norms tend to prevail in Eastern cultures. Thus, we believe that cultural norms will affect how outcomes are allocated to stigmatized persons in organizations.

Another reason for arguing that culture affects the allocation of outcomes is that cultural values determine beliefs about the deservedness of various targets. For example, as noted above, in Western cultures, the status rule dictates that those with higher status contribute greater inputs, and (Leventhal, 1980). As a result, therefore, deserve greater outcomes allocators in such cultures may believe that because stigmatized persons have lesser status, they make fewer contributions, and are less deserving of outcomes. However, the emphasis on equality or need-based allocations in Eastern cultures suggests that because of their neediness, stigmatized individuals deserve outcomes that are equivalent to those of non-stigmatized people. Interestingly, research supports this argument. More speciﬁcally, Crystal et al. (1999) showed that Japanese children were more likely to in their include children with disabilities (e.g., groups than were U.S. children. In addition, research by Wetherell (1982) showed that although both Polynesian children and European children demonstrated an ingroup bias in allocating outcomes, outgroup