# that

Humor and Leadership Leaders’ use of humor is proposed as another channel through which humor exerts an inﬂuence on performance. Perhaps not surprisingly, books focusing on leadership advice often suggest that appropriate use of humor is one aspect of effective leadership. For example, in the 7th edition of Successful Manager’s Handbook (Nelson-Neuhaus et al., 2004), the use of humor is suggested as an effective tool in many regards, such as establishing positive relationships with subordinates, demonstrating adaptability in a new environment, and motivating others. Although Duncan (1982) and Malone (1980) discussed the potential utility of humor as a tool for managers back in the early 80s, relatively little empirical research has been conducted to test this argument since then.

Among the limited number of studies on humor and leadership, an assumption that humor is associated with good leadership and favorable outcomes is generally supported. For example, Sala (2000) found that outstanding executives used more humor than average executives, and that humor use was positively correlated with bonuses and competency scores. Interestingly, he also found that use of humor was correlated with intelligence (Goleman, 1994), competencies associated with emotional supporting other research ﬁndings linking humor to social skills (Hampes, 1992). Cooper (2002) also found that leaders’ use of positive humor increased the positive affect dimension of leader–member exchange, which in turn inﬂuenced organizational citizenship behaviors (positively), and turnover intentions (negatively). In addition, Decker (1987) found that employees who reported more use of humor by their supervisors reported higher job satisfaction. Similarly, Burford (1987) found that teachers’ perception of principals’ sense of humor was associated with satisfaction and loyalty. Instead of addressing the simple direct effect of leader’s use of humor on employees’ work behaviors, Vecchio, Justin, and Pearce (2006) explored the moderating role of leaders’ use of humor. Their ﬁndings

227

228