---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ca6fd79584e7dea59b536c40d768d340f1ff3fb9
title: '13'
---
# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

Directly pertinent to our opening remarks, with regard to consequences of diversity effects, we found that more than a half of studies reported null effects of diversity variables. Among the total 487 diversity effects examined in this review, only 20% of the cases provided evidence for a signiﬁcant relationship between diversity and positive outcomes, 24% of the cases provided evidence for a signiﬁcant relationship between diversity and negative outcomes, and 5% of reported curvilinear relationships. Despite some exceptions (e.g., when diversity was measured in terms of cultural values, personality, or faultlines), we generally found evidence empirical ﬁndings regarding the effects of diversity on various work outcomes were predominantly non-signiﬁcant. More speciﬁcally, in the studies we reviewed 51% of diversity effects reported were non-signiﬁcant.

Contextual Variables Considered in Past Research Next, we turn our attention to contextual variables that have received attention in extant research either as moderator or as control variables.

Table 2a summarizes ﬁndings of contextual variables investigated in past diversity research. As described in the previous section, various aspects of diversity context were examined at multiple levels of analysis. In general, of those three distinct levels of analysis we discussed earlier, we found that the research attention had been predominantly focused on discrete level contextual variables (72% of contextual variables considered were at the discrete level). Among discrete level moderating variables, those that received the most attention were – team climate (22%), task characteristics (e.g., task interdependence, task complexity/routineness) (21%), team leader characteristics (17%), and various team processes (e.g., communication) (15%). Together, these variables accounted for a large proportion of discrete contextual moderators considered in past research (75%). A promising trend indicated by our review was a growing emphasis on temporal factors at the discrete level. In our review, we found a total of 8 effects across three studies incorporated team tenure/group longevity as a moderator variable. Other discrete level variables such as team size or team affect/attitudinal composition were predominantly considered as control variables rather than moderators.

Among the distal omnibus level contextual inﬂuences, those that received attention were the demographic composition of the geographic location in which teams were embedded; speciﬁcally these diversity effects accounted for community or customer demographics as moderator variables (5% of all moderating variables considered). Other distal omnibus factors such as industry/occupation (2% of all control variables considered), country/
