---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ce047c2caa4ee7fff94fb5e615fd9401b6fac2b4
title: '13'
---
# APARNA JOSHI AND HYUNTAK ROH

demography can have on perceptual processes related to gender-based identiﬁcation. These studies and others (e.g., Ridgeway, 1997) show that, in organizations where subordinate groups are under-represented, negative stereotypes and biases toward these groups are higher. A more recent study by Joshi, Liao, and Jackson (2006) examined how organizational unit management demography and work group demographic composition inﬂuence pay differences based on ethnicity and gender in a large sales organization. Commensurate with Ely’s research, Joshi and colleagues’ study demonstrated that, in sales units with a greater number of female managers, the pay gap between male and female employees reduced and women were able to perform at higher levels. In a similar vein, Martins et al. (2003) compared the effects of racio-ethnic diversity in a homogeneous and a heterogeneous organization. Results suggest that the outcomes of racio- ethnic diversity were more negative in racio-ethnically homogeneous contexts than in more heterogeneous contexts. While organizational demography has received considerable attention in diversity research, we call more cross-level research that considers the speciﬁc impact of organizational level variables on interpersonal diversity dynamics within teams.

Organizational Strategy The nature and extent of internal and external pressures that ﬁrms face to adopt diversity management practices may be determined by organization’s business strategy. External pressures include industry wide trends such as increased competition from new entrants or changing consumer demands. Internal pressures include resources available within the ﬁrm and the resources and capabilities of the top management team (see Dass & Parker, 1999). The manner in which a ﬁrm reacts to these pressures may often be a reﬂection of the ﬁrm’s strategy. Miles and Snow (1984) distinguished between ‘‘prospector’’ ﬁrms that actively seek out new opportunities and are more likely to view these pressures as opportunities and ‘‘reactor’’ ﬁrms that may view the same set of pressures as threats. Depending on the ﬁrm’s strategy, external and internal pressures to adopt diversity management practices may be addressed differentially and have consequences for diversity-related outcomes.

In a series of studies, Richard and colleagues examined the effects of ﬁrm business strategy on the relationship between ﬁrm diversity and performance. Richard, Barnett, Dwyer, and Chadwick (2004) examined if a curvilinear relationship between ﬁrm’s cultural diversity and performance was moder- ated by ﬁrm-level entrepreneurial orientation. The study found that ﬁrm-level entrepreneurial orientation, deﬁned as propensity to take risks and act proactively and innovatively, did indeed moderate the U-shaped relationship
