---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 27b51230c96e3ac9db28fe02f1199814647ea558
title: '13'
---
## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

Effect of Actual Social Identity on Emotional Reactions Consistent with Arrow 17 in the SIO model, there is considerable evidence that a target’s ASI inﬂuences an observer’s emotional reactions to him or her (e.g., Fiske et al., 2002; Fiske & Ruscher, 1993; Goffman, 1963; Heatherton et al., 2003; Jones et al., 1984; Kurzban & Leary, 2001; Mackie & Hamilton, 1993). In addition, some marks (e.g., highly contagious diseases) result in stigmatization in virtually in all cultures (Kurzban & Leary, 2001). Interestingly, research reveals that even non-human animals appear to stigmatize other creatures. More speciﬁcally, such animals (a) create territories from which they exclude other animals, form hierarchies to dominate other animals, and (c) ostracize animals who have diseases or pathogens. In addition, negative emotional reactions to various types of stigmas have been found with both self-report measures and physiological measures (e.g., Blascovich, Mendes, Hunter, Lickel, & Kowai- Bell, 2001). This is very important because physiological measures reports being distorted by circumvent impression management and related motives.

(b)

the possibility of observers’

As noted above, Goffman (1963) viewed stigmas as falling into one of three general categories, tribal, and i.e., abominations of blemishes of character. However, the degree to which any given stigma will evoke negative affective or emotional responses is a function of one or more of the factors considered below (e.g., Jones et al., 1984).

the body,

Course or Stability. Some stigmas remain constant over time (e.g., race) and/or are relatively irreversible (e.g., amputations), whereas others change (e.g., acne). Marks of the former variety typically lead to more negative emotional reactions than those of the latter. In this regard, Weiner, Perry, and Magnusson (1988) conducted two experiments to study the effects of the stability (e.g., obesity vs. AIDS) and controllability of 10 stigmas on reactions of pity, anger, and helping judgments. Results of Experiment 1 showed, for instance, that the greater the stability of the stigma, the lesser the perceived efﬁcacy of intervening to change it.

Disruptiveness. Stigmas have differential capacities social interactions (e.g., communication) between a marked target and an observer. For example, psychotic behavior is likely to be more disruptive of interactions than is physical unattractiveness. In general, the greater the disruptiveness of a mark, the more negative will be an observer’s emotional responses to it.

to disrupt
