## The Past, Present, and Future of Dynamic Performance Research

(B1 and B3) are both parameters within b from Eq. (11). Similarly, B2(t) and B4(t) are parameters within Zi. The individual characteristics (both stable and dynamic) are individual observations, taken at each point in time, within Xi and ci. Thus, one can immediately see that there is a high degree of potential synergy between the analytical methods emerging from the GLMM and the study of job performance over time.

The problem with such a general model is that it is statistically impossible to estimate in its most general form (Laird & Ware, 1982; Rovine & Molenaar, 2001). Constraints must be placed on the model. HLM and structural equations approaches (i.e., LGCM) use different constraints, giving each advantages and disadvantages.

Hierarchical Linear Modeling HLM is a methodological technique designed to analyze multilevel data, where data is nested hierarchically in groups. For the study of performance over time, this methodology has immediate relevance, as individual job performance ratings are gathered on a set of people, and the repeated measures contain information about each individual’s performance trends (Hofmann, 1997; Raudenbush & Bryk, 2002). The approach recognizes that an individual’s performance scores (i.e., the within-individual data) may be more similar to each other than data from other individuals, which is in contrast to an OLS approach where within-and across-individual residuals are not estimated separately (Hofmann, 1997).

As is typically employed, HLM approaches model employee performance by using two levels of analysis. The within-person analysis, labeled Level-1, is modeled as speciﬁed above in Eq. (9), or with greater complexity as in Eq. (10). In HLM, the second-level of analysis is used to model the parameters from the ﬁrst level. The Level-2 model (for Eq. (9)) may appear as follows:

B0i ¼ g00 þ g01X1 þ g02X2 þ ... þ U0i

B1i ¼ g10 þ g11X1 þ g12X2 þ ... þ U1i Here, each individual’s intercept (B0i) is modeled as a function of an overall average (g00), some covariates (X), and across-person error (U0i). Simulta- neously, the individual’s performance slope (B1i) is estimated by an intercept (g10), some covariates (not necessarily the same ones as in Eq. (14)), and error (U1i). If estimating a two-level model, the effects of the Level-2 covariates are ﬁxed effects (i.e., they are estimated without estimating an error term speciﬁcally for those coefﬁcients). However, the model can be expanded to possess more levels, where each parameter is estimated as a function of

83

(14)

(15)

84