## Third Party Interventions across Cultures

satisfaction in the US (Brett, Barsness, & Goldberg, 1996). Mediation can remove barriers to ﬁnding a solution and enhance the outcome of a negotiation (Lewicki, Saunders, & Minton, 1999). Voluntary settlement rates between 60 and 80% are typical (Brett, 2001; Kressel & Pruitt, 1989) though there is sometimes high variance in settlement rates. A variety of factors can inﬂuence whether mediation will be successful. Wall, Stark, and Standifer (2001) highlight three factors that can inﬂuence mediation success. First, contextual features within which dispute resolution is embedded play a role. This factor includes variables such as culture, the status of the mediator and the parties, the time that the mediation takes place, and the interdependence of the disputants. For example, in some cultures research has shown that there are norms for seeking the assistance of third parties to resolve (or help resolve) conﬂicts, and so disputants may feel comfortable and motivated to initiate third party interventions (i.e., Brett, 2001; Chan, 1998; Mansor, 1998; Callister & Wall, 1997).

Second, characteristics of the mediator matter (Kolb, 1985; Bowling & Hoffman, 2003). This factor includes the formal training of the mediator, the mediator’s expertise in substantive issues in dispute (Arnold & O’Connor, 1999; Arnold, 2000), level of bias or neutrality (Conlon & Ross, 1993), the particular ‘‘approach’’ that the mediator takes to resolving the dispute (Ross, Conlon, & Lind, 1990), and the disputants’ acceptance of the rules and norms that govern the mediation procedure (McGrath, 1966). Especially in more hierarchical or traditional cultural settings, the preferred mediator is often a well-respected community member or someone with high status (Rudin, 2002; Chia et al., 2004, Meyer, 2002).

Finally, characteristics of the disputants play a role in mediation success. The relative power of the disputants, the emotional hostility of the parties, and the trust or mistrust they feel toward each other all affect the mediation process (Coltri, 2004; Carnevale, Lim, & McLaughlin, 1989). For example, mediation is usually more effective when the conﬂict is mild (Carnevale & Pruitt, 1992); as the level of conﬂict increases, the probability of settlement decreases (Depner, Canata, & Ricci, 1994).

Although mediation may be effective in many disputes, particularly when the level of hostility is not extreme, it does not always produce a settlement, at least in cultures that abide by the ‘‘formal’ deﬁnition of mediation where disputants have outcome control. The implementation of mediation in some cultural contexts rarely leads to impasses, because either the ‘‘mediator’’ has a mandate from the collective to subordinate the individual interests to those of the group, or in hierarchical cultures, a higher authority is expected to make the decision and disputants would be expected to comply (Meyer, 2002;

313

314

DONALD E. CONLON ET AL.

Woo, 1999; Chia et al., 2004; Rudin, 2002). In modern-day Korea, for example, mediators have decision-making authority in civil mediations with the power to hand down a decision if the parties do not agree or the mediator thinks the decision to which they have agreed is judged unreasonable (Woo, 1999). In this sense, such processes do not allow disputants real outcome control, in which case, mediation in some cultures is not necessarily the same as mediation by the formal deﬁnition consistent with a US-centric conceptualization. In cultures where mediators have a high degree of decision-making authority, a US-centric view of this process would more closely approximate arbitration, which we discuss next.

Arbitration Arbitration is one of the most widely known and used third party procedures (Lewicki et al., 1999). In arbitration a third party holds a hearing at which time the disputants state their positions on the issues, call witnesses, and offer supporting evidence for their respective positions. After evaluating the evidence and considering other relevant factors, the third party issues a binding settlement (Elkouri, Elkouri, Goggin, & Volz, 1997). Grievance arbitration settles a very narrow dispute, most commonly over either the interpretation or the application of a speciﬁc clause in an existing contract within an ongoing contractual relationship. Interest arbitration is a broader focused form of arbitration (Olson & Rau, 1997), that does not focus on contract language interpretation and is the focus in our analysis (hereafter we simply refer to interest arbitration as ‘‘arbitration’’). Arbitration is used to resolve small claims business disputes, consumer complaint disputes such as in the securities industry, contested insurance claims, and disputes over automobile ‘‘lemons’’ (cf. Kressel & Pruitt, 1989; Lewicki et al., 1999; Podd, 1997), in addition to its history of use in the labor relations ﬁeld.

Whereas there is considerable literature surrounding the behavior of mediators, there is much less surrounding the behavior of arbitrators. This is because arbitrators do not usually exert as much inﬂuence over the process of dispute settlement as do mediators. Generally speaking, arbitrators do not engage in the various tactics used by mediators described previously. Compared with a mediator, an arbitrator more closely resembles a judge hearing evidence and casting a ruling. An arbitrator’s focus is on producing an outcome, which the procedure always does, either through a binding settlement imposed by the arbitrator, or by the disputants who may reach an agreement on their own prior to the arbitrator’s ruling. While arbitration always produces a settlement, it is not without problems. In low power distance, individualist cultures in particular, disputants may not be as likely