## Cognitive, Affective, and Cultural Inﬂuences on Stigmatization

related to HRM processes and practices. First, organizational norms, policies, and practices can be changed so as to reduce the likelihood of stigmatized individuals being treated unfairly (Stone-Romero & Stone, 2005). For example, selection procedures can be established that encourage the hiring of job applicants who have positive attitudes about diversity. Second, views about the VSIs of job incumbents (e.g., as communicated in employee handbooks and recruiting materials) can be changed so as to stress that the organization values diversity. Third, reward systems can be modiﬁed so as to (a) promote cooperative as opposed to competitive behavior among individuals in ingroups and outgroups, and (b) reduce the ability of ingroups to dominate outgroups. Fourth, organizations can individuals increase the degree to which the actual performance of (as opposed to their race, sex, etc.) serves as a basis for performance ratings and associated outcomes. Fifth, reward systems can be modiﬁed so as to take into account the values, needs, and preferences of individuals in both ingroups and outgroups (e.g., norms about fairness). To the degree that organizational cultures and related HRM policies and practices are modiﬁed so as to reinforce the value of diversity, emotional reactions to individuals in various stigmatized outgroups might become less negative.

It may be possible to change cognitions Changing Observers’ Cognitions. about stigmatized individuals through strategies that enhance the ability and motivation of observers to attend to individuating information about targets. For example, situations can be created that facilitate the controlled processing of information about targets (e.g., Devine, 1989), thus reducing the degree to which cognitions about them are stereotype-based. However, it deserves stressing that even if cognitively-based strategies lead to positive changes in self-reports of stereotypes of outgroups, this may not change affective responses to outgroup members. The reason for this is that category-based responses to outgroup members have both cognitive and affective components (e.g., Dovidio & Gaertner, 1993). In addition, self- reports tend to be plagued with impression management biases (Crosby et al., 1980).

Recategorization of Outgroup Members. One strategy for overcoming categorization-related problems is to motivate observers to recategorize (as opposed to decategorizing) outgroup members (Dovidio & Gaertner, 1993). This may take the form of having observers focus on the commonality of the goals of ingroup and outgroup members (e.g., working toward the defeat of a common enemy). Cooperative goal structures are one means of reducing

151

152