---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 59c6e64968133129aa85cf4019864191591ca4b7
title: '13'
---
## Focus of Previous Organizational Research on Stigmas

Most of the theory and research on stigmas in organizations has focused on such cognitive issues as categorization, stereotyping, and expectation effects (e.g., Stone & Colella, 1996; Stone et al., 1992). Interestingly, however, relatively little organizational research on stigmas has considered its emotional or affective correlates (Colella & Stone, 2005; Stone & Colella, 1996). However, affective and emotional reactions to marked individuals have been the focus of a number of works in social psychology (e.g., Bodenhausen, 1993; Mackie & Hamilton, 1993; Mackie, Hamilton, Susskind, & Rosselli, 1996). The relative neglect of the same factors in organizational research is unfortunate because many seminal works (Goffman, 1963; Jones et al., 1984) argue that stigmas often evoke strong, negative affective and/or emotional responses in others. Not surprisingly, the same responses may have profound effects on human resource management (HRM) processes and practices.

In addition, very little organizational research has considered cultural inﬂuences on the stigmatization process. In this regard, it is noteworthy that even though researchers have argued that often there is considerable agreement within a culture1 about what constitutes a stigma, most stigma theories do not explain their consensual nature across cultures (Crocker, Major, & Steele, 1998). What’s more, although research shows that stigmas vary across cultures, extant models of stigmatization have not considered the reasons for these differences. Given that there is often considerable agreement within cultures about what constitutes a stigma, we believe that cultural factors (e.g., values, norms) have important inﬂuences on the stigmatization process. For example, cultural norms specify how observers should respond to individuals with particular stigmas (Jones et al., 1984).

113

114
