## Developing New Research on Humor and Culture in Organizations

An additional proposition relates to how the organization itself can for humor. Schein (1985) suggests that provide a common context organizational cultures consist of learned assumptions that develop when a ﬁrm deals with its problems of internal integration and external adaptation. Such shared assumptions might provide an important source of shared expectations. For example, humor within an organization might develop around common knowledge about the ﬁrm’s industry, products, processes, history, or customers. Indeed, Vuorela (2005) suggests that members of the same organization or occupation are often able to use humor successfully among themselves, despite their differences in societal culture background. As an example, during the ﬁrst author’s visit to a factory in India, frequent electricity failures required time-consuming and annoying machine resets each time power was restored. During one of these episodes, an expatriate American manager approached some of the Indian employees on the shop ﬂoor and said ‘‘The city utility commissioner must be excellent. I hear he recently won an award for the most electricity restorations in India.’’ While the ﬁrst author did not immediately understand the joke, it received a great laugh from the Indian employees. It effectively utilized an expectation system that they shared with the American manager. Importantly, this joke likely served to cement bonds between the manager and line workers, by (a) expressing that the manager understood their situation, and did not blame them for the slow-down, and (b) increasing ingroup cohesiveness by identifying a common outgroup member (i.e., the utility commissioner). Indeed, in situations where individuals within an organizational enviro- nment have diverse societal culture backgrounds, we might expect that effective humor will have its roots in shared aspects of the organizational culture.

We put forth one ﬁnal proposition regarding culture and incongruity theory. Berry’s (1976) acculturation framework highlights a key indicator of how individuals might come to understand the expectation systems of another culture. Speciﬁcally, he suggests individuals who value maintaining relationships with other groups are more likely to assimilate or integrate into a new culture, whereas those who do not will separate themselves or become marginalized. Therefore, active attempts to assimilate or integrate, as indicated by active behaviors such as interaction with natives, following local media, and familiarizing oneself with popular culture, should help expose individuals to expectation systems that might be elicited in humor. Importantly, though, even individuals who are motivated to experience a new culture might fail if they have low ability in the language associated with that culture (Berry, Kim, Minde, & Mok, 1987).