# Management Science, 37, 267–281.

Alvares, K. M., & Hulin, C. L. (1972). Two explanations of temporal changes in ability-skill relationships: A literature review and theoretical analysis. Human Factors, 14, 295–308. Alvares, K. M., & Hulin, C. L. (1973). An experimental evaluation of a temporal decay in the prediction of performance. Organizational Behavior and Human Performance, 9, 169–185.

Austin, J. T., Humphreys, L. G., & Hulin, C. L. (1989). Another view of dynamic criteria: A critical reanalysis of Barrett, Caldwell, and Alexander. Personnel Psychology, 42, 583–596. Austin, J. T., & Villanova, P. (1992). The criterion problem: 1917–1992. Journal of Applied

Psychology, 77, 836–874.

Barrett, G. V., & Alexander, R. A. (1989). Rejoinder to Austin, Humphreys, and Hulin: Critical

reanalysis of Barrett, Caldwell, and Alexander. Personnel Psychology, 42, 597–612.

Barrett, G. V., Alexander, R. A., & Doverspike, D. (1992). The implications for personnel selection of apparent declines in predictive validities over time: A critique of Hulin, Henry, and Noon. Personnel Psychology, 45, 601–617.

Barrett, G. V., Caldwell, M. S., & Alexander, R. A. (1985). The concept of dynamic criteria:

A critical reanalysis. Personnel Psychology, 38, 41–56.

Barrett, G. V., Caldwell, M. S., & Alexander, R. A. (1989). The predictive stability of ability requirements for task performance: A critical reanalysis. Human Performance, 2, 167–181. Barrick, M. R., & Mount, M. K. (1991). The Big Five personality dimensions and job

performance: A meta-analysis. Personnel Psychology, 44, 1–26.