## A Multilevel Framework for Work Team Diversity Research

nature of interactions within organizations and work groups. Pettigrew (1998) noted that ‘‘optimal contact’’ requires sustained long-term interac- tions with out-group members and highlights the role of individual’s past experiences with the out-group members and their value differences may shape the manner in which they approach inter-group contact situations. Further, using the strife in Northern Ireland and Quebec as illustrations, Pettigrew noted that the level of inter-group conﬂict in the immediate community might play a role in shaping the manner in which individuals approach inter-group contact situations. These perspectives suggest that individuals’ past experiences and encounters in the non-work domain can shape their interactions with out-group members within the work group.

Another approach to understanding the effects of community demo- graphics takes a very different view of how these demographics could shape group diversity outcomes. This approach, characterized as the customer- match perspective, views the community as a source of customers rather than employees’ social relationships. Studies taking this approach have found little support for the often-cited business case that assumes that ﬁrms are more likely to reap ﬁnancial beneﬁts when employee demographics match the demographics of the community. For example, Leonard, Levine, and Joshi (2004) examined whether the match between employee–customer demographics across 700 retail stores (including gender, race, and age) in a two mile radius around the stores predicted store ﬁnancial performance. Results indicated that store-community demographic match did not predict store performance. More recently, Sacco and Schmitt (2005) also did not ﬁnd support for this relationship in a large sample of quick service restaurants. these various approaches to understanding the effects of community demographics on the relationship between work group demo- graphics and performance suggest that, while important, community demo- graphics may have somewhat different implications for the outcomes of diversity than is conveyed by the customer matching perspective (that is also often the basis for the business case for diversity). These studies reviewed above suggest that community demographics may have a more immediate impact on interpersonal relationships in organizations rather than the organizational bottom-line and may therefore be an important consideration while examining the impact of diversity on interactional processes in the team.

Together,

National Culture/Country In a global economy, trends in worker migration and immigration have made diversity-related considerations fairly prevalent. In countries like South Africa, India, Japan, and the European Union, various aspects of

9

10