---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5e68de885547f6f0bfb6678994edc14eedf6e5c5
title: '13'
---
# CHRISTOPHER ROBERT AND WAN YAN

humor effects. However, the cognitive and emotional mechanisms of humor are thought to be stimulated primarily on the humor appreciation side, so we must have individuals who appreciate humor if we are to obtain the cognitive and emotional outcomes resulting from humor. One perspective on this issue might be that some degree of balance is necessary. In an interesting study on mens’ and womens’ preferences for sense of humor in the opposite sex, Bressler, Martin, and Balshine (2006) found that men tended to prefer people who appreciated their humor, whereas women had a stronger preference for people who produced humor. Similarly, Ziv and Gadish (1989) found that complementarity between spouses perceptions of one another’s humor was associated with marital satisfaction. Although these results might suggest that workplaces with a balance between men and women might be particularly conducive to the generation and appreciation of humor, a more general prediction about having a mix of producers and appreciators who would complement one another’s humor styles might represent a fruitful research avenue, particularly in smaller group settings.

‘‘No mind is thoroughly well organized that is deﬁcient in a sense of humor.’’ (Samuel Taylor Coleridge)

To be useful in a selection context, measures of humor production and/or appreciation or some other means of evaluating them (e.g., interviews) must be explored. A key research issue in this vein is determining whether measures of humor are related to other important characteristics used in selection. As the Coleridge quote above implies, one such characteristic might be intelligence. For decades, researchers have documented that intelligence and giftedness and sense of humor are often correlated (e.g., Holt & Willard-Holt, 1995; Lehman & Witty, 1928). This relationship suggests that an examination of incremental validity of humor over and above general cognitive ability would be important. Alternatively, if measures of sense of humor are correlated with general cognitive ability, it would be interesting to determine whether humor could be used as a serviceable substitute for general cognitive ability, particularly if it would not result in adverse impact. Similarly, sense of humor might be related to other individual differences variables that could be used in a selection context such as personality, and there is some limited evidence that humor might be related to empathic concern, which is a component of emotional intelligence (Hampes, 2001). On the criterion side, measures of in-role task performance might be inﬂuenced by humor, particularly for jobs that require a considerable creative component. However, criteria such as job attitudes or extra-role behaviors would be more proximal to the emotional or affective impact of humor, and
