# HAPPINESS DEFINED

The mysteries surrounding the age-old pursuit of happiness have long fascinated members of the human race. Aristotle expounded upon this subject at length in the 4th century B.C. in the Nichomachean Ethics. For Aristotle, happiness or eudaimonia, was not a ﬂeeting feeling or mood, but the product of a life well-lived and constituted the summation of a complete, ﬂourishing existence (McMahon, 2004; Taylor, 1998). Over the centuries, theologians, philosophers, and lay people alike, have wrestled with this seemingly universal, Aristotelian pursuit of happiness. Taking their cue, theologians have labored to extend this present worldly quest to include the transcendental life hereafter (McMahon, 2004).

From a more pragmatic view, Diener (1984) noted that virtually every scientiﬁc approach to happiness converges around three distinct, deﬁning phenomena. First, happiness is considered to be a subjective experience (Diener, 1994; Diener, Sandvik, Sedlitz, & Diener, 1993). This means that people are considered to be happy to the extent that they believe/perceive themselves to be happy. As a consequence, happiness involves some type of judgment as to the positives and negatives of one’s life (Parducci, 1995; Wright, 2005). Second, happiness includes both the relative presence of positive emotions and the relative absence of negative emotions (Argyle, 1987; Diener & Larsen, 1993; Michalos, 1985; Warr, 1990). Finally, happiness is a global judgment. By this we mean that it refers to one’s life as a whole. In addition, happiness exhibits some measure of stability over time (Diener, 1994; Diener, Suh, Lucas, & Smith, 1999; Myers, 1993), though it is not so stable that it can’t be inﬂuenced by environmental events (Pavot, Diener, Colvin, & Sandvik, 1991; Sandvik, Diener, & Seidlitz, 1993) and responsive to therapeutic interventions (Lykken, 1999; Seligman, 1994, 1995, 2002). Taken together, one can conclude that happiness refers to a subjective and global judgment that one is experiencing a good deal of positive and relatively little negative emotion (Cropanzano & Wright, 2001; Wright, 2005).

However deﬁned, the pursuit of happiness, coupled with an avoidance of unhappiness, has long been considered as fundamental to human motiva- tion (Lawler, 1973; Myers, 1993; Russell, 1930; Wright, 2005). In the work domain, perhaps our opening quote from Thorndike (1922) best expressed this motivational importance. Highly consistent with Thorndike, a belief