# individual

Third Party Rejection of Voluntary Settlements Some contractual third party procedures do not allow for the rejection of voluntary settlements between the two disputants; for many procedures such as mediation or fact-ﬁnding, voluntary agreements are the goal. In some procedures, however, we may ﬁnd that the third party has the prerogative to reject an unacceptable or incomplete voluntary agreement. For example, in arb-med or med-arb, the third party can reject an incomplete settlement and impose an arbitrated decision. We anticipate that disputants in individualist, egalitarian cultures may feel frustrated and offended when their voluntary agreements are overruled by a third party, even if the third party’s solution is objectively better (i.e., has higher payoffs to both sides; is more integrative).

indeed,

In collectivist cultures, however, we may ﬁnd as we argued for process control above, that voluntary agreements are not as sought after as in individualist cultures. A collectivist disputant might not be frustrated or offended if the third party imposes a solution that is designed to attend to the interests of a broader collective, because collectivists are more likely to allow the subjugation of their individual interests to that of the group (Brett, 2001). In fact, such a decision might be welcomed, with disputants knowing that the solution has attended to more interests than just their own.

Similarly, disputants from more hierarchical cultures may expect that the third party will take responsibility to make a decision, regardless of what the disputants suggest in terms of outcomes (if they suggest anything at all). There would be the perception that a higher status third party ‘‘knows best’’ or has more knowledge than lower status others. In some cultures, in fact, we might expect that the third party’s primary purpose would be to come up with solutions as the disputants may not feel comfortable to suggest any themselves.

Furthermore, we might expect that in rule bound cultures, it could be offensive to go outside the bounds of accepted and legitimate rules or standards to pursue individual level interests (Tinsley, 2004). If the third party determines that the disputants’ suggested outcome does not reﬂect the