---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 48f819179190e99b25a01d6b494c5c1249ccfac5
title: '13'
---
## EUGENE F. STONE-ROMERO AND DIANNA L. STONE

them (e.g., Kurzban & Leary, 2001). In work organizations, selection systems screen out individuals who have such tendencies through the use of such procedures as integrity tests, personality tests (e.g., conscientiousness, emotional stability), and background checks.

Avoidance of Pathogens. As a result of adaptation, individuals are prone to avoid contact with people who are viewed as carriers of what are perceived to be communicable pathogens (Kurzban & Leary, 2001). For example, in the interest of insuring their own welfare, observers are likely to avoid contact with individuals who are thought to be carriers of such diseases as AIDS, leprosy, tuberculosis, syphilis, and cancer. The fact that some diseases are not actually communicable is often irrelevant to observers.

Avoidance of Threats to the Worldviews of Ingroup Members. Terror management theory posits that the anxiety of ingroup members is increased by contact with outgroup members who are viewed as having worldviews (including culture speciﬁc beliefs, values, and behavioral norms) that differ from those of the ingroup (Solomon, Greenberg, & Pyszczynski, 1991). The worldviews of the ingroup afford its members a sense of security and provide them with standards against which their behavior can be judged to be of value, assuring them some form of ‘‘immortality.’’ As a result, threats to the same worldviews create anxiety because discrepant worldviews imply that those of the ingroup may be wrong, leading individuals to feel devalued and vulnerable, thus, decreasing their sense of worth (e.g., self-esteem), and heightening their sense of mortality. Therefore, in the interest of minimizing anxiety and other negative emotional states, ingroup members are likely to both denigrate and avoid contact with individuals who threaten their worldviews.

Note that the negative intergroup interdependence perspective of Fiske and Ruscher (1993) is highly consistent with terror management theory. In fact, Fiske and Ruscher (1993) argue that the mere existence of outgroup members who are perceived to differ from ingroup members on such dimensions as appearance, behavior, attitudes, and goals is sufﬁcient to evoke threat among ingroup members. In addition, Schneider’s (1987) ASA model is consistent with terror management theory.

It deserves adding that attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors that are regarded as very appropriate in one culture (i.e., worldview consistent) may be thought of as highly inappropriate in another. For example, Solomon et al. (1991) argue that in corporate America a highly competitive, rugged individualist is held in high regard. However, the same type of person
