---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 930ae21ab6defb86a9fb3a6c37e4f723219e5c64
title: '13'
---
## The Happy/Productive Worker Thesis Revisited

affective components, PWB is primarily an affective or emotional experience. In particular, using the circumplex model of emotion as the theoretical framework, PWB measures the hedonic or pleasantness dimension of individual feelings (J.A. Russell, 1980). PWB is typically operationalized as capturing both positive and negative emotional states on a single axis (Bradburn & Caplovitz, 1965; Cropanzano, Weiss, Hale, & Reb, 2003; Wright & Staw, 1999). In other words, the high pole is anchored by such (Wright, 2005). hedonic or pleasantness-based descriptors as ‘‘joyous’’ Alternatively, the low pole is anchored by such descriptors as ‘‘sad’’ and ‘‘annoyed.’’ Thus, to be high on well-being is to be simultaneously low on negative emotion and high on positive emotion. In fact, a number of prominent scholars have more or less equated well-being with happiness (e.g., Diener, 1984; Myers, 1993; Seligman, 2002). Based upon the circumplex model, PWB can be contrasted with other conceptualizations measuring the level of activation or ‘‘affect intensity’’ of emotional experience (Brief & Weiss, 2002; Larsen & Diener, 1992; Watson, 1988; for a further review of the circumplex model, see Wright, 2005).

The role of the hedonic or pleasantness dimension of well-being (i.e., happiness vs. sadness or depression) in the determination of various individual outcomes has long been recognized in the applied sciences (Wright, 2005). Over a period of several years, starting in the mid 1920s, Rexford B. Hersey, at the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce, the University of Pennsylvania (1929, 1930, 1932a, 1932b) undertook a very thorough investigation of the relationship between worker well-being and productivity. Conducting longitudinal ﬁeld research, Hersey (1929, p. 459) often spent the entire workday, and much time off the job as well, ‘‘in almost constant contact with the workers studied.’’ As a result, Hersey was able to meticulously gather a wide range of worker data on blood pressure, colloid content of blood, weight, hours of sleep, illness, feelings of fatigue, tardiness, level of cooperativeness, verbal outbursts, well-being and happiness, and productivity and efﬁciency in an attempt ‘‘to obtain a complete picture of their whole life’’ (Hersey, 1929, p. 459). Focusing on positive well-being, Hersey (1932b, p. 289) noted in his seminal work, Workers’ Emotions in Shop and Home, that ‘‘it would seem impossible to escape the conclusion that in the long run at least, men are more productive in a positive emotional state than in a negative [one].’’

Alternatively, a number of Hersey’s contemporaries focused on the negative or unpleasantness end of the well-being continuum (Elkind, 1931; Fisher & Hanna, 1931; McMurry, 1932). Working with employees of the R.H. Macy Company in New York, Anderson (1929) concluded that more

283

284
