---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 735f197de1a5dd642ba752b28f31b45e5aec03cd
title: '13'
---
# Culture and Emotional Mechanisms

Earlier we argued that one of the reasons humor is an important phenomenon in organizations is that it can provide an initial stimulus for positive affect, which in turn can be spread through a process of emotional contagion. However, both the tendency to display one’s emotions, and the tendency to respond to others with positive affect, might be inﬂuenced by culture. Indeed, in order for one’s affective state to be caught and spread by interactants must be willing and able to express their emotions others, (Hatﬁeld et al., 1994). Similarly, in order for humor to function as a facilitator of mood convergence, group members must be willing to use it and respond to it. While these assumptions are fully satisﬁed in existing group mood studies (e.g., Barsade, 2002; Bartel & Saavedra 2000; George 1990; Totterdell, 2000; Totterdell, Kellet, Teuchmann, & Briner, 1998), which relied exclusively on American samples, studies on emotion and culture challenge the generalizability of these assumptions. Most notably, research- ers have identiﬁed cultural display rules, deﬁned as ‘‘learned, culturally determined rules that govern the display of emotion depending on social circumstances’’ (Matsumoto 1990, p.196), that might inﬂuence emotional contagion processes. For example, Bond (1993) argued that emotional expressions of Chinese people are characterized by lower frequency, less intensity, and shorter duration. More generally, Andersen (1988) suggested that collectivists suppress emotional displays that are incongruent with the group mood. These ﬁndings suggest that culture might moderate the relationship between humor and performance, such that emotional contagion of positive emotions aroused by humor will be less likely in collectivist cultures.

However, the moderating effect might be even more complex. The theoretical framework proposed by Triandis (1995) regarding the impor- tance of ingroups in collectivistic cultures is again relevant. According to Triandis (1995), collective cultures foster a great degree of cohesion or harmony in their limited ingroups, so group members are more inclined to present positive feelings toward ingroup members. Furthermore, in order to
