---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7195d1361e7e02a5d558c97829d75ac908a17466
title: '13'
---
# THOMAS A. WRIGHT AND RUSSELL CROPANZANO

moderating role of employee well-being on the job satisfaction–employee retention relationship.

Considered together, the available data point to a common conclusion: When happiness is operationalized as well-being, it is positively related to various measures of job performance and employee retention. For example, regarding job performance, ﬁeld research has consistently found signiﬁcant bivariate correlations between PWB and job performance ratings in the .30–.50 range, surpassing the typical results obtained for NA, PA, emotional exhaustion, and even job satisfaction (Wright, 2005). While less prevalent, research investigating the PWB and employee retention relationship is equally promising. These signiﬁcant ﬁndings have both theoretical and implications. As a practical case in point, taking a bivariate practical correlation of .30 between PWB and job performance/employee retention indicates that almost 10% of the variance in job performance/employee retention is associated with differences in PWB. Conversely, a correlation of .50 indicates that a substantial 25% of the variance in job performance/ employee retention is associated with differences in PWB. In addition, regarding job performance, this seems to be the case regardless of whether the criterion variables are objective indices or subjective ratings (Staw & Barsade, 1993; Staw et al., 1994).

The effect also holds in quasi-experimental, cross-sectional, and long- itudinal studies, even after controlling for the effects of possible confounding variables (e.g., Wright et al., 2002a, 2002b; Wright & Staw, 1999). Despite its value, this literature is in need of extension as, when all is said and done, the work to date has emphasized only the main effect relations among well-being, performance, and retention. In the next section, using theory (cf., Fredrickson, 1998, 2001) emanating from the various ‘‘positive’’ move- ments: positive psychology, positive organizational behavior (POB), and positive organizational scholarship (POS) (Cameron, Dutton, & Quinn, 2003; Diener, 2000; Luthans, 2002a, 2002b, 2003; Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi, 2000), we propose an innovative integration of the most promising (PWB) and widely used (job satisfaction) approaches to workplace happiness.
