---
source_path: 13.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7d84d877f79e069fc6e861054e89f7b5c36019cf
title: '13'
---
# Fact Finding

This procedure has historically been used in some states in the US (e.g., Iowa) for public-sector labor contract negotiations. Here, a third party or panel of third parties holds hearings to identify the issues and the positions of the parties, resulting in a non-binding but formal recommendation that may guide disputants as to what an arbitrated settlement might look like (Dickinson & Hunnicutt, 2005). The fact ﬁnders may employ mediation tactics, or they may function more like a board of inquiry. Typically, the fact ﬁnders will issue a report in which the members of the panel recommend a settlement for the dispute (Olson, 1988; Schneider, 1988). This report may go only to the parties themselves (providing a ‘‘prominent solution’’ for continuing bilateral negotiations), or it may also go to an external decision maker (e.g., a state legislature’s budget committee for public-sector labor disputes). A recent study has shown that fact-ﬁnding as a process prior to binding arbitration increases the rate of voluntary negotiated settlements relative to the use of binding arbitration alone, as the non-binding recommendation serves as a focal point for the disputants on which they anchor (Dickinson & Hunnicutt, 2005). These authors suggest that the formalized suggestion or explicit recommendation as a preliminary step to any ADR procedure may be a key element to encouraging voluntary settlements. Comparing this focal point element of

fact ﬁnding with mediation procedures brings into consideration an interesting point. Mediators may also serve a similar function of establishing focal points by suggesting possible
