---
source_path: 17.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e613be3f96ecff17b09806c475878fb473a5bebd
title: '17'
---
# features of each

Employees, irrespective of their cultures have needs which they expect organizations to help them meet. Unfulfilled needs create tensions that influence Employees behavior. Employees in cement companies in Nigeria also have needs. These needs includes: need for money, need for

congenial associate need for recognition or praise for work done, need for growth, need for comfortable work environment, need for competent and participative leadership, need for socially responsible organization need for shelter, esteem, self-realization and fulfillment and the rest. They also need the organization to carter for their welfare, health problems, family problems and wellness issues.

However studies indicate that these needs are not always met. This is because, most of the cement manufacturing companies have: poor compensation structure characterized by poor salary and wages, constant organizational conflicts between management and unions, unethical management practices that make them socially irresponsible, undemocratic and non-participative leaders and so on. The resultant effect is that employees are hardly motivated to enhance the level of productivity in the sector. As stated earlier, majority of employees in this sector need money or cash compensation to motivate them. In Nigeria, cost of living is very high, corruption has taken a center stage and the rate of unemployment is equally very high. In some parts of the country, it is normal for a man to marry up to five wives having more than twenty children. This also brings about high cost of education and training. Business activities are low as well as savings. The costs of health services are also high.

Operating under these circumstances money becomes a motivator. Employees want money, they expect money and demand money. This tends to confirm Maslow’s hierarchy of needs theory that money is important for satisfying lower-level needs. Further, Herzberg also acknowledged the fact that money as a hygiene factor prevents “disease” rather than promote “health” having lasting effect on unfavorable feelings. Money, as a motivator, in different ways for different employees and for the same employee in different ways. As a symbol, money represent almost every other value or outcome that an individual is motivated to pursue - status, prestige, security, self-esteem, possessions - and so on. Money is a handy means of comparison with others. It is an individual’s personal scorecard in the game of work or in the larger game of life. In designing and effective for compensation and motivational packages

is symbolic

achievement,

power,

21

employees in the cement industry, money should be kept in proper perspective.

- 5. Link between motivation and productivity

Motivated employees are likely to deliver higher productivity and influence others to work harder. However motivation is not a simple concept and different approaches motivate different employees. If a group of people is asked what would motivate them to work hard and asked to choose four from a list of 25 items, it is rare to find many people who will choose four that are the same. This is because people have different needs and expectations. Consequently, it is important that an organization that wishes to take motivation seriously will use a range of approaches that will encourage intrinsic and extrinsic motivation.

- 4. The Concept of Productivity

Literature findings indicate that there is a link between motivation and productivity in the manufacturing sector. A motivated employee derives satisfaction from his job because his needs are met so increases the level of his productivity in the organization. Both the content and process theories, as earlier observed, tend to support the idea that a motivated worker consistently and it willingly draws on his ability and uses the constructively organization. A motivated behavior is therefore seen in the intent with which the employee works. A motivated is wholesome and tends toward high performance and productivity in the organization. Productivity of an employee is a function of his satisfaction and motivation to produce.
