---
source_path: 17.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 66ddf0388ff4bb7ee79b543f6cf07ef11225398d
title: '17'
---
# job

Factors that relate to job satisfaction have been referred to as satisfies or motivations. According to Weir (1976.76), in the original research, the following five factors stood out as “strong determinants of job satisfaction”. These factors are: achievement, recognition, works itself, responsibility, opportunity for advancement or promotion.

These factors create positive feelings among employees and are aspects of both job and organization contexts.

stopped. It addresses the mechanism by which human needs changes. They focus on the direction, intensity and persistence of behavior. Donelly et al (1995) believe that in describing this theory, it should be noted that an individual’s behavior is made up of “conscious choices”. Some of the process theories are:

a. Equity theory: Equity theory as propounded by Adams (1963) suggests individuals will compare the efforts that they make against the efforts made by those around them, that is to say individuals will compare them-selves to others in similar circumstances to them-selves similar work, hours, study fellowship etc and to the treatment that the others receive-pay, bonus, promotion etc and if there is similarity, the individual will sense a feeling of equity, However, if individuals believe that there is an input-outcome in equity (more work for less pay-than others), they will sense a feeling of in equity. They theory assesses an individual’s perceived fairness of an employment situation and find that there are perceived inequalities, he/she would change behaviour and may go further to take action to seek a redress of the in balance. This redress may be in any of the four ways: increase outputs training (by working hander, attend courses, or go for further education), decrease inputs (by working less, refuse to take as much responsibility, or be so obliging to help others), and increase outcomes (aim for extrinsic benefits such as requesting for more pay, extra holidays etc) and quit (resign from the job, absenteeism). Equity theory has helped organization address the issue of injustice, partiality, and unfairness.
