# C.P

(1972).

- 3. Alderfer, C.P (1969) An empirical test of the new theory of Human Needs. Original behaviour and Human Performance. Vol. 4 Issue 2 142-175.

- 4. Buchanan, D. & Huczynski, A (2004). An Behaviour:

- 4. Buchanan, D. & Huczynski, A (2004). An Behaviour:

- 6. Cooper, R (1973) How Job motivated. Personnel Review 2, 4-12.

Source: Butler, M & Rose, E (2011). Introduction to Organizational Behavior (ed), London, The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development. p102

- 7. Daft R. (1999). Management. (2nd ed). New York: McGraw Hill Book Company. 8. Daniel, M (2001) Maslows concept of self Ed actualization psycintractive. Ogr/topic.

The case above indicates some of the motivation practices embarked upon by Keystone Food to meet employee needs and enhance productivity. Keystone uses both extrinsic and intrinsic motivation strategies.

- 9. Donelly, J. H. (1995) Fundamental of Management. (9th ed) Chicago: Irwin. 10. Hutt, W (2207) Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs. Educational psychology Interactive Valdosta, GA: Valdosta State University Press

- 7. Conclusion

This paper deals generally with issue pertinent to employee motivation as global in enhancing productivity with special reference to cement manufacturing companies in Nigeria. It considers the declining productivity in the industry and traces it to the inability of management to effectively motivate their employees. Specifically, both the content and process theories of motivation were examined. The paper highlights the fact that motivation theories cannot be utilized in isolation but holistically. In the Nigerian context, money is seen as one of the most important strategy in motivating employees. To Nigerian workers “money is everything” and so he loves it with passion. However, all the variables in the theories examined in the paper can be applied to elicit maximum performance from employees.