---
source_path: 17.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 943408e19437eb0b0c006c7bafc0701389951245
title: '17'
---
# 2.1 The Content theories of motivation

As soon as a need is met, the desire for another need to be met will be stronger and take priority for the individual - it will no longer be a source of motivation. Psychologist Maslow’s proposition is that there is an order from a hierarchy of importance - to the needs that people have. Based on the preceding, Maslow suggests that are arranged hierarchically (levels or stages) from the lowest to highest. These stages are: the physiological needs, the need for safety, the need for love, the need for esteem, the cognitive needs, the aesthetic needs, the need for self-actualization (attainment of one’s full potential) and the self- transcendence needs (Daniel 2001).

Daft (1999 .405) further suggested that these needs can be fulfilled both on the job and off can job. The implication of the theories on the business world and on employees is clear - if management can find out which level each employee has reached, then they can decide on suitable rewards that employee are (http://www.tutor Specifically, 2u.net/business/people/motivation). two groupings: the needs are based on all deficiency need and growth needs. Each lower need must be met before moving to the next high level and ones each of these needs have been satisfied, if at some future time a deficiency is detected, the individual will act to remove the deficiency (Huitt, 2007).

satisfying
