---
source_path: 17.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 91a2d1ee1064ad8ff6af6c811c984527367d9ee9
title: '17'
---
# the

Motivation has therefore been the core of many studies up to now, and a significant number of researchers have been researching the term Ozturk (2012). By and large, motivation suggests goal oriented behavior directed at achieving an individuals’ goal or goals. Motivation is personal, it comes from within and therefore difficult to manage and control. It becomes a bit challenging to come up with one universally applicable theory, though long sought after, from a manager’s perspective. However, research also indicates that a person who is motivated works hard, sustains a pace of hard work, and has self-directed behavior

18

toward important goals. When an employee work is unsatisfactory with low motivation is often considered to be the problem. The underlying concept of motivation is some driving force within the individual by which they attempt to achieve goals in order to fulfill needs or expectations.

low productivity,

As earlier stated motivation is personal and comes from within the individual hence a number of theories are put forth for further explanations. To fully appreciate what constitutes motivation, two types of motivation extrinsic and intrinsic are first examined. According to Butler &Rose, extrinsic motivation is concerned with real, tangible rewards that are received by the employee while intrinsic motivation comes from within and is therefore psychological in nature (Mottaz, 1985). Essentially, motivation in the organization is concerned with three features of behavior: personal needs or wants, rewards or outcomes of behavior and how individual needs are met (Cooper, 1973). It is assumed that all individuals have an inherent set of needs that can be satisfied through their work. Through their performance in a job, the individual will be rewarded and will, in the process of the reward, have their personal needs met.
