# low production

According to Georgopolous et al (1957), this assertion depends on: the particular needs of the individual as reflected in the goals toward which he is moving and his perception regarding the relative usefulness of productivity behavior as an instrument or path to attainment of these goals. This implies that the level of productivity should be determined, stated and the appropriate motivation theory applied to all employees who are likely to be beneficiaries.

- 6. Case study

A number of cases have been put forward of show been practices in employee motivation in many organizations world-wide. Below in one of such cases:

Keystone Food: Using intrinsic and extrinsic motivation to enhance productivity

Based on these visible low productivity indices, efforts have been made by various governments and other organizations to improve productivity. From developed to developing nations, efforts at promoting productivity are given priority in the national development schemes. Employee productivity

Keystone Food is a fast-food supplier and a good example of how to motivate employees. According to the Human Resource Manager, key stone has a “strong belief in engaging employees in everything that they do”. This belief underpins the many systems and strategies to encourage a motivated workforce. Consequently, the majority of management are developed from within. The Manchester plan has a lifelong learning centre which staff are encouraged to use for all types of learning. For example, staff on the shop floor may choose to learn a language or computer