---
source_path: 17.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 31a17ff20164b29863ad1f28ff89eb77601229e7
title: '17'
---
# the

These theories of motivation, as described by Helriegel (1999), Mullins (2000) and Bulter &Rose (2011) are concerned with identifying the essence and substance of what motivates an individual. They try to answer the question: what specific things motivate people? They are to some extent, described as universal theories because they can be applied to all individuals in different cultures. Some of these theories are explained below:

b. Existence, Relatedness and Growth (ERG) Theory: This theory posits that there are three groups of core needs: Existence, Relatedness and Growth hence the label: ERG theory. Arderfer (1969) modified Maslow’s five levels of needs and compressed them into three levels as stated below:

a. Hierarchy of needs theory: This theory is based on the premise that individuals are “wanting animals”, whose needs depend on “what we already have”. Maslow (1964) believed that people have instinctual basic needs and desire those needs to be met. These needs, although initially strong, can appear to become weak and therefore be easily repressed or ignored. These can be drowned out by learning, fear, and expectations. Maslow further argued that these needs, except in exceptional cases, are present in every human being.

i. Existence Needs: These include all material and physiological desires (food, water, air, clothing, safety, physical love and affection.

ii. Relatedness needs: These encompass social and external esteem, relationships with significant others friends, coworkers and employers.
