## Journal of Asian Business Strategy, 5(9)2015: 208-214

(1991), resources which are valuable, rare, inimitable, and non-substitutable, have the potential to provide firms with a sustainable competitive advantage. A set of resources that seem to match the above criteria are talent assets.

1.2. Critical factors of TM that must be considered Coleman (2008) suggested certain factors which can help the successful implementation of talent management strategy. The talent management strategy should be integrated and aligned with organizational strategy and it is also of vital importance to articulate the talent management strategy. Talent management is linked to culture and people of the organization. People and culture are the heart of the organization for creating the successful talent management strategy. The biggest challenges for the managers to manage talent is not the technical one, it’s the cultural one. Overcoming the cultural hurdles is a very difficult task especially when holding knowledge is considered more important than sharing it with others (Cole-Gomulka, 2007). The reason of the sentiment is that the nature of the employees is competitive and they are more tending towards holding the knowledge than comparing because sometimes they don’t want others to have the same competencies as they are having.

Another important issue about the talent management is the compensation, if the right incentive is given to the people who share talent than the sharing of knowledge become effective (The Banker, 2004). The compensation and reward system must support the sharing of knowledge and talent. It is important to reward those employees who contribute more in knowledge sharing in the organizations and on the same time it should be made sure that employees understand the importance of talent management (Cole-Gomolski, 2006).

A difficulty with many compensation systems and incentives for distribution talent is that constructive talent comes from comparatively low down in the organization, from people who are not on incentive systems and perhaps react much more willingly to the feeling that they belong to highly motivated, leading edge, innovative groups of people. This perhaps means in the end that the essential role is played by culture; by an unquestioned, even comatose, code that persuade talent sharing and co-operative behavior (The Banker, 2004).

1.3. Components of talent management There are three main component of talent management

- Talent attraction and selection  Talent Retention  And Talent development

1.4. Talent attraction and selection According to Armstrong (2006) organization should use various techniques and methods for recruiting and selecting the right talent. The recruitment of talent pool is the first and important task of the talent management process the talent pool is a group of candidates that are the potentials executive of the organization who will steer the organization towards the competitive performance. So to gain and maintain the performance of the organization the recruitment and selection the talented individuals is very crucial. The creation of talent pool can be done in two forms, one is internal and second one is external. The internal recruitment of talent pool will be from the already exiting employees of the organization. The internal recruitment may can give advantage as the employees already know the culture and way of doing work in the organization and it also might uplift the morale of the employees if their position is uplifted (Davis et al., 2007). However, the external sources will be the best way of gathering a talent when organization wants to bring the cultural change and wants innovation (Ballesteros & Inmaculada, 2010). Employer branding includes development of an organization’s image, good enough to attract employees. Without the good brand image, it is difficult to attract the right talents (Ana, 2009).

210