---
source_path: 2015_asian_economic_and_social_society_all_rights_reserved.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d8d6dc7ab179261ed5676704d3d555683a5b9df4
title: 2015_asian_economic_and_social_society_all_rights_reserved
---
## Journal of Asian Business Strategy, 5(9)2015: 208-214

metrics and measures for use by different users. Considering a financial perspective, researchers assess the relationship between competences in talent management and financial organizational performance and demonstrate why talent management is a worthwhile investment. Organizations that apply talent management practices demonstrate significantly higher financial performance compared to their industry’s peers, for example regarding sales revenue and productivity (Steinweg, 2009), Net Profit Margin and Earnings Before Interest, Depreciation, and Amortization (EBITDA), Return on Assets and Return on Equity, or Return on Shareholders‟ Value and Market Value. Moreover, different studies induce talent management cost savings through long-term proactive internal succession planning and higher retention rates.

According to the research conducted by Carlucci et al. (2004) explored that business performance can also be influenced by managing talent assets. It is also researched that there is the huge role of value generated for the key stakeholders with the business performance in an organization. It is also researched that organizational processes are based on some competencies which is used to manage the business effectively and efficiently. The generated value has the huge role to manage the business process. Finally organizational competencies are developed and processed by the management of talent assets in an organization. Hence it has been cleared organizational competencies are the result of effective and efficient management of talent assets that increases the business performance and value creation. In the same way the effectiveness of talent asset management will provide firms the skills to align the demand of market with talent resources (Zott, 2003). Dynamic capabilities are used by the firm to achieve new resource configurations as markets evolve, emerge, evolve die. Dynamics capabilities are more useful to individual firms to gain sustainable competitive advantage and long term superior performance (Teece et al., 1997).

It has been cleared from the research that talent management practices has the huge role to compete in the market and have competitive advantage on others. It is also explored that organization can gain only short span of time competitive advantage with the help of innovations and new technologies. It is the only talent management practice which gives the sustained competitive advantage in the market by organization attraction, development, motivation, management and reward (Heimen & Colleen, 2004). Like a machine, a business will fail to operate successfully if key elements such as processes, systems, and structure are misaligned or hindered by friction between those element and like a machine, a business must be designed, operated, and maintained. These functions are performed by the talent – the human capital employed by the enterprise. Indeed, talent (i.e., an organization’s employees), typically is the single biggest lever for driving improvements in business performance. The collective skills of the talent employed in an organization largely comprise the organization’s core capabilities. An organization’s talent injects capabilities that are very difficult for competitors to benchmark and replicate. More than any other asset, talent provides the potential for long-term competitive advantage (Lawler, 2008).
