## Journal of Asian Business Strategy, 5(9)2015: 208-214

talent management practices (Stahl et al., 2007). There are several benefits of talent management such as employee engagement, retention of employee, increased productivity, culture of excellence and much more (Ballesteros & Inmaculada, 2010). Organization success with the help of talent management is anchored in three factors; these factors are development and reward plan, creation of set of career paths for the talented employee, which will help in ensuring the high quality work in the organization which will ultimately result in superior performance (Ballesteros & Inmaculada, 2010). In this dynamic and competitive business era organizations are facing challenges in talent management (Schuler et al., 2011). Talent management of talented worker is becoming of great importance for the organizations which are working on global level. The demand for key position talented employees is high because those are the persons who will steer the organization and will be responsible to take the organization towards the peak of success, this is the reason organizations are in a state of fight for the best people.

Theory of firm based on talent management hypothesize that the talent is the only resource of firms which may provide basis for sustainable competitive advantage, therefore, the organizations should focus on talent and the capabilities derived from talent.

The role of firms is neither the creation of talent nor the acquisition of talent rather; the firm is considered a as talent integration institute, as the talent resides in the head of individuals and firms only integrates and provides system and structural arrangements for coordination and co-operation between the talented workers.

Literature on talent management advocates that organization image and performance can be enhanced, if the capabilities of individuals are utilized accurately and successfully. In knowledge economy, the main issue is to find attract, develop and retain the talented people, so organizations are putting their focus on gaining and maintaining the competent people with them.

1.1. Theories of talent management A number of theories and frame work are developed concerning to the conversion of talent into better performance. A firm’s distinctive competence is based on the specialized resources, assets, the distinctive competency of the firm is linked to the resources, assets and skills possessed by the members of the organization and the optimum utilization of these resources help the organization to build competitive advantage. Two basic theories are emerged firm the theory of firm: resource based theory and talent based theory.

Talent based theory states that the talent is the only resource which may help in gaining and maintain the competitive advantage, and, therefore organizations must put a focus on attracting and maintaining the talented work force. The role of firms is neither the creation of talent nor the acquisition of talent rather; the firm is considered a as talent integration institute, as the talent resides in the head of individuals and firms only integrates and provides system and structural arrangements for coordination and co-operation between the talented workers.

Literature on the competitive advantage has taken a shift and it has acknowledged that the internal resources have a crucial role to play in the performance of the organization (Wright et al., 2009). The resource based view of the firm gives importance to building unique, hard to imitate and valuable resources as well as a dynamic way to integrate those resources to get a success for the organization. According to resource based view competitive advantage is dependent on the valuable, rare and hard to copy resources that reside in the organization and human resources one of those scarce resources.

A more recent theory of firms, the talent based view of the firm, which gives importance to develop and enhance the competency of the employees of the firm through a systematic process of talent acquisition and talent transfer and sharing to gain competitive advantage. According to the resource- based view rival firms competes on the basis of the heterogeneity and immobility of their resources and capabilities (Peteraf & Bergen, 2003). Resources can be physical, human and organizational in nature, and they can be used to implement value-creating strategies. As was suggested by Barney

209