## dents. Equity & Excellence in Education, 43, 249(cid:1)264.

Perrin, P. B., Bhattacharyya, S., Snipes, D. J., Calton, J. M., & Heesacker, M. (2014). Creating lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender allies: Testing a model of privilege invest- ment. Journal of Counseling & Development, 92, 241(cid:1)251.

Ragins, B. R., & Cornwell, J. C. (2001). Pink triangles: Antecedents and consequences of per- ceived workplace discrimination against gay and lesbian employees. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86, 1244(cid:1)1261.

Ragins, B. R., Singh, R., & Cornwell, J. C. (2007). Making the invisible visible: Fear and dis-

closure of sexual orientation at work. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92, 1103(cid:1)1118.

Reason, R. D., & Broido, E. M. (2005). Issues and strategies for social justice allies (and the student affairs professionals who hope to encourage them). New Directions for Student Services, 2005, 81(cid:1)89.

Reason, R. D., Scales, T. C., & Roosa Millar, E. A. (2005). Encouraging the development of racial justice allies. In R. D. Reason, E. M. Broido, T. L. Davis, & N. J. Evans (Eds.), Developing social justice allies (pp. 55(cid:1)66). San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Rosette, A., & Livingston, R. (2012). Failure is not an option for Black women: Effects of organizational performance on leaders with single versus dual-subordinate identities. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, 48, 1162(cid:1)1167.

Rostosky, S. S., Black, W. W., Riggle, E. D. B., & Rosenkrantz, D. (2015). Positive aspects of being a heterosexual ally to lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people. American Journal of Orthnopsychiatry, 85, 331(cid:1)338.

Rostosky, S. S., & Riggle, E. D. B. (2002). “Out” at work: The relation of actor and partner workplace policy and internalized homophobia to disclosure status. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 49, 411(cid:1)419.

Russell, G. M., & Bohan, J. S. (2016). Institutional allyship for LGBT equality: Underlying

processes and potentials for change. Journal of Social Issues, 72, 335(cid:1)354.

Ryan, M., Broad, K. L., Walsh, C. F., & Nutter, K. I. (2013). Professional allies: The story- ing of allies to LGBTQ students on a college campus. Journal of Homosexuality, 60, 83(cid:1)104.

Sabat, I. E., Lindsey, A. P., Membere, A., Anderson, A., Ahmad, A., King, E., & Bolunmez, B. (2014). Invisible disabilities: Unique strategies for workplace allies. Industrial and Organizational Psychology: Perspectives on Science and Practice, 7, 259(cid:1)265.