---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: efb685d0ebae3f0207971f2c76ca6c3fcfc407e0
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
# How Does Someone Become an Ally?

Becoming an ally is a developmental journey; it is more than simply learning about the topic (Collins & Chlup, 2014; Sue, 2017). One cannot simply self-identify and truly be an ally to minority communities. The process is complex and engages a per- son’s affect, cognition, and behaviors. In particular, Jones et al. (2014) highlighted the importance of developing one’s skills in ally development. Learning facts and gaining knowledge, though important for ally development, is not enough. Some have proposed stage models of the developmental process people go through in becoming allies; we review some of these models here.

Bishop (2002) presented a five-stage model of ally development that is applicable to all types of allies (i.e., allies to racial minorities, women, LGBTQ individuals). She suggested that the first step to becoming an ally is recognizing that oppression exists and seeking to understand it. This relates to the motivation to become an ally we previously discussed; oftentimes, it is some sort of personal connection or critical incident that leads to one understanding these issues and therefore deciding to be an ally (Dillon et al., 2004; Sue, 2017). The second step in Bishop’s model is to rec- ognize that oppressions intersect. To have a deep and nuanced understanding of prejudice and discrimination, it is important to understand that people with multi- ple minority statuses will experience prejudice differently than those with only one. For example, Black people experience discrimination, as do women, but Black women experience unique and different experiences than either group separately (cid:1) and their experiences are dependent on the ways in which their race and gender interact with each other (Livingston, Rosette, & Washington, 2012; Rosette & Livingston, 2012).

The first two stages of Bishop’s (2002) model focused on the individual learning about the issues minorities face. The next stages become more personal and require the individual to look inward and learn about him- or herself. The third stage in this model is for the individual to address the guilt associated with having a privi- leged identity. After learning about the challenges minorities face, a non-minority may feel guilty and uncomfortable that they do not have to face these issues, and also may inadvertently benefit from the system that causes oppression against minorities in the first place. The person must learn to understand and deal with these feelings instead of ignoring them or push them away, which can be a challenge for many. Ashburn-Nardo (2018) highlighted the importance of this in her discus- sion of what allies do: self-regulating one’s own thoughts and behaviors regarding minority issues.

After this, the fourth step in Bishop’s (2002) model is to understand one’s per- sonal areas of marginalization and work for change. In other words, potential allies
