---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 049a53109b89cdaeada953d80aafc2eed164f3fe
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
## 134 Nicholas P. Salter and Leslie Migliaccio

related to early childhood education, because we felt that allyship among children is different than allyship among adults, which is our primary population of interest. We also excluded any search results about allyship as an alliance in therapy, as the meaning of allyship in this setting is different from the meaning of allyship in work- place settings. We also excluded dissertations from our search.

Although these literature searches resulted in an extensive list of results that pro- vided a strong foundation for understanding allyship in the workplace, it was incomplete. As previously discussed, many scholars have discussed the topic of sup- porting minority communities without using the terms ally or allyship. For exam- ple, discussions of allyship would be incomplete without discussions of identity development. A White person learning to understand his or her role within the con- text of racial discrimination and what role he or she can play in addressing the issues may or may not use the word “ally” but it is clearly related. Therefore, the second stage of our literature review was to read the sources we uncovered during our formal searches and then build our literature review based on the citations our sources themselves included. This helped us to build our literature review beyond a basic overview and to be able to explore the topic in a more detailed manner.

Our final literature search yielded an extensive review not only of research on allyship in organizational settings but of all the larger issues, implications, and ramifications of the topic in general. Overall, this literature review yielded a large enough body of work as to allow for readers to fully understand the topic and use the results. We split our literature review into three sections: what makes an ally, outcomes of allyship, and ally promotion and formation.
