# Abstract

Purpose — This chapter reviews previous research on allyship: non-minority indivi- duals who choose to support minorities while working to end discrimination and prejudice. In particular, the focus of this chapter is on how allyship applies to the workplace. We argue that allyship can be a diversity management tool to help reduce workplace discrimination.

Methodology — To explore this topic, we conducted a literature review on allyship in the workplace and synthesized previous research together. We examined research from both organizational and non-organizational settings.

Findings — Our review of previous literature is divided into three sections. First, we discuss what all entails allyship, including knowledge, communication, and, in par- ticular, action. Next, we discuss the many outcomes previous research suggests comes from allyship (including benefits to other individuals, benefits to the overall culture, and benefits to the ally him or herself). Finally, we conclude with a discus- sion of who is likely to become an ally as well as the journey a person goes through to become a true ally.

Value — This chapter can be useful for practitioners who wish to promote allyship within his or her workplace. Organizations that want to strengthen their diversity and inclusion climate can consider developing ally training programs and promot- ing ally culture. Additionally, this chapter can be useful for researchers who wish to study the topic. Currently, there is a dearth of research on allyship specifically within the workplace; this chapter can help future researchers identify areas for empirical exploration.

Diversity within Diversity Management: Types of Diversity in Organizations Advanced Series in Management, Volume 22, 131(cid:1)152 Copyright r 2019 by Emerald Publishing Limited All rights of reproduction in any form reserved ISSN: 1877-6361/doi:10.1108/S1877-636120190000022008