---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0fca4697fee910794487d3330a69e262ed678e0b
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
## 136 Nicholas P. Salter and Leslie Migliaccio

sign of acceptance, and should not hesitate to voice their views on social justice, as well as teach others about these issues.

One particular subset of communication is confrontation; allies often confront prejudice and discrimination in others. This may happen in the context of language (such as when someone informally says “That’s so gay” during a conversation in a break room) or behaviors (such as when a person is not considered for a promo- tional opportunity solely because of his or her race). Within previous research, the role of allies in confronting others is perhaps the most commonly discussed sugges- tion for what it is allies do (Ashburn-Nardo, 2018; DeTurk, 2011; Drury & Kaiser, 2014; Lapointe, 2015; Sabat et al., 2014; Spanierman & Smith, 2017b); it is widely agreed upon that this is a key aspect of being an ally to any minority group. Confrontation can lead to positive change; a recent meta-analysis showed that con- fronting prejudice can be effective in changing behaviors (Smith et al., 2018). Lapointe discussed confrontation in the context of “breaking down the bystander effect”; allies not only refuse to be passive bystanders themselves by speaking up in the face of prejudice but also encourage others to not be bystanders or ignore preju- dice either. DeTurk added that allies at times use the different sources of authority they may possess to combat prejudice and discrimination. For instance, an ally might invoke an institutional policy (such as an HR anti-discrimination policy) when they see prejudice occurs.
