---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e08db817532c438314c475872544cedcf63b51ac
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
# Allyship in the Workplace

made participants feel worse about themselves, made them less likely to make ste- reotypical statements after, and made them endorse less prejudicial attitudes after as well. Similarly, some studies have also found that when overhearing others con- front prejudice, people are more likely to endorse anti-prejudice attitudes and beliefs themselves (Blanchard, Lilly, & Vaughn, 1991; Monteith, Deneen, & Tooman, 1996).

One may question why it is that allies must play roles as educators. Instead, per- haps this responsibility should (or could) be on minorities, as they have firsthand knowledge of the issues at hand and could therefore more authentically discuss the topic. We are not arguing against this; everyone can play a role as an educator in the fight against discrimination. Also, it should be noted that the effectiveness of anyone as an educator (be it an ally or a minority) depends on how the person com- municates. To this point, Hyers (2010) found that nonhostile assertive confronta- tion styles were more effective than other confrontation styles. In general, how one educates others is an important consideration of anyone trying to educate and change others, regardless of if he or she is an ally or a minority.

That being said, research shows that allies can often educate and influence peo- ple’s attitudes and behaviors in a way that minorities may not be able to do as eas- ily. Why is this? One reason is that allies may be seen as more “legitimate”; in arguing for minority rights and equality, they are not seen as seeking personal gain, so their request seems more authentic to others (Drury & Kaiser, 2014). This point was highlighted in a study by Eliezer and Major (2011), who had participants view scenarios of sexist behavior. They found that males were viewed more positively than women for calling out sexism, even though it was the same sexist behavior in both situations. Of course, when minorities argue for rights and equality, they are not necessarily solely seeking personal gain, but this point may be lost on others (especially if these others are prejudiced themselves).

Thus far, all the research described here focuses on the impact allies have on other non-minorities. However, allies can positively impact minorities as well. One particular example of this involves LGBTQ people. Much research exists to support the suggestion that allies can make LGBTQ people feel comfortable enough to “come out” and disclose their sexual orientation or gender identity to others (Day & Schoenrade, 1997; Law, Martinez, Ruggs, Hebl, & Akers, 2011; Ragins, Singh, & Cornwell, 2007; Wessel, 2017), which in turn is related to a variety of posi- tive workplace outcomes (Day & Schoenrade; 2000; Griffith & Hebl, 2002; Ragins & Cornwell, 2001). This suggests that allies can make minorities feel comfortable and safe in the workplace, and therefore make them want to be more authentic because of it.
