---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 01fa66a025592432b8e0c4437f57dcbe95c7e4a5
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
## 144 Nicholas P. Salter and Leslie Migliaccio

need to explore in what ways they personally have experienced prejudice; this understanding helps them to better understand what minorities go through, which leads to them being better allies themselves. Finally, the last step in Bishop’s model is to be an ally, in all the ways we have discussed previously, that is, through knowl- edge as well as action (DeTurk, 2011; Drury & Kaiser, 2014; Fingerhut, 2011; Sabat et al., 2013; Spanierman & Smith, 2017b). As can be seen, this model suggests that much introspection and (at times) difficulties may be encountered, but it will lead to a strong foundation from which allyship can be built.

Part of becoming an ally is learning to understand what it means to be a non- minority (i.e., what it means to be a majority member of society). Helms (1995) and Sue and Sue (2016) both developed models of the stages White people go through to develop their racial identity. These models are similar to the one presented by Bishop (2002) but vary in slight ways to focus more so on race. First, White people are in a stage of unawareness, what Helms referred to as the contact phase, and Sue and Sue referred to as the naivete´ phase. In this stage, individuals feel neutral or generally positive about people of color but are unaware of or uneducated about issues of racism and privilege. Sue and Sue suggested that this can be followed by a conformity phase, in which individuals can hold contradictory beliefs and opinions about issues of race, often without realizing it. For instance, they may say they are not racist, but implicitly believe that White culture is superior to other cultures and may deny that discrimination exists, suggesting instead that problems of inequality may be attributed to people of color instead of the society and system in which they live.

The next stages of White racial identity development involve individuals begin- ning to see issues of discrimination and prejudice around them. Helms (1995) sug- gested this disintegration phase is marked by feelings of internal conflict and guilt; the person is conscious of issues of race (and how they as a White person benefits from it) and is uncomfortable with it. Similarly, Sue and Sue (2016) referred to this as the dissonance phase. An example of this could be a White person who realizes that she is just as qualified as a person of color but is given more opportunities at work than that person of color is given; this can be make her feel guilty for receiv- ing a benefit even though she did not ask for it. Both models suggested that to resolve this dissonance, individuals may try to avoid thinking about the issues and retreat back into White culture (which Helms referred to as the reintegration phase). On the other hand, individuals may decide to do something to resolve this internal conflict. In resolving this internal conflict, the individuals then move for- ward to later stages.

For those who decide to resolve these internal conflicts, the next stages are marked by the individuals trying to learn and understand issues of race (and their place as White people in them). Helms (1995) suggested that individuals begin this part of the process with the immersion/emersion phase, which entails questioning what it means to be White as well as exploring the ramifications of being White. Prior to this, much of ally development focuses on thinking about people of color; now, though, the individuals begin to think about White people instead. They shift their focus from changing people of color to changing White people and White
