---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9f8e2652f5ac2d4f7c20409021ee8a843b0553b0
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
# Allyship in the Workplace

discrimination in the workplace include (but are not limited to) people with disabil- ities (Cheung et al., 2016), religious minorities (Ghumman, Ryan, Barclay, & Markel, 2013), and immigrants (Krings, Johnston, Binggeli, & Maggiori, 2014); these groups would also benefit from allyship.

Also, some people are minorities within minorities. For instance, women who are pregnant or breastfeeding at work may need extra support (Little, Hinojosa, Paustian-Underdahl, & Zipay, 2018); allies can be mindful of this. Intersectional approaches to studying diversity and inclusion suggest that practitioners and scho- lars will only gain a more nuanced and deeper understating by examining the way in which multiple minority statuses intersect and influence each other (Sawyer, Salter, & Thoroughgood, 2013). Similarly, allyship should take a similar intersec- tional approach (Broido, 2000; Davis & Wagner, 2005; Reason & Broido, 2005; Reason, Scales, & Roosa Millar, 2005). Related, discussions of allyship need to be careful not to imply an ally can only support one minority community (i.e., a male who is just an ally “for women”); indeed, we are not arguing this here. Allies can be activists for social justice and support all minority communities (i.e., a male who is an ally “for all minorities”).

One final limitation of the current chapter is that most (but not all) of the research previously conducted on the topic has been done in Western countries; therefore, little research from other parts of the world is included here. This may result in a discussion of the topic that is more Western than global and therefore somewhat incomplete. That being said, as we noted in the beginning of this chapter, we argue that allyship can apply to every country; it is our hope that practitioners in every country will consider allyship (and scholars from countries not currently represented by allyship research will publish more on the topic).
