# Allies’ Impact on Other Individuals

Allies can impact other individuals in many ways. First, allies educate others about minority issues. Education is important because it is through this that meaningful change is accomplished; if allies do not educate others but only reprimand others for incorrect beliefs, any change will be superficial and short-lived. The role of edu- cation was highlighted in a study by Rostosky, Black, Riggle, and Rosenkrantz (2015). In their study, 292 self-identified allies to the LGBTQ community completed an open-ended questionnaire about their experiences as an ally. One common theme identified in their responses was that allies consistently reported being able to edu- cate others as a positive aspect of being an ally. One respondent quoted by the authors discussed her experiences educating the administration of her organization, highlighting the fact that education can occur with peers or with leaders (thus lead- ing to organizational change).

Most generally, the goal of being an ally is to change the attitudes and behavior of others in order to decrease discrimination and prejudice among others. Through educating others, it is possible that people’s attitudes and behaviors can change. Indeed, allyship can be thought of as a specific case of the general bystander effect; research shows that when bystanders step up and say something about what they are witnessing, positive change can often ensue (e.g., Coker et al., 2015; Midgett, Doumas, Trull, & Johnson, 2017). As previously mentioned, a recent meta-analysis of confrontation research shows that it generally can be effective (Smith et al., 2018). For example, one study on this topic examined participants who were con- fronted after making discriminatory statements about race (Czopp, Monteith, & Mark, 2006). Across three separate studies, the authors found that being confronted