## 146 Nicholas P. Salter and Leslie Migliaccio

important in ally training than solely imparting knowledge. Such programs should include self-reflection, discussion with others, and learning opportunities (to address all the issues discussed in the stage models previously; Bishop, 2002; Helms, 1995; Sue & Sue, 2016). For examples of ally development trainings, see Anicha, Burnett, & Bilen-Green, 2015, as well as Wagner, Yates, & Walcott, 2012.

Allies can also be important parts of other diversity management tools that may already be in place. For instance, employee resource groups (ERGs) are spaces where people of similar backgrounds (commonly, but certainly not limited to, race, gender, disability, or sexual orientation) gather to share their experiences and talk about ways their workplace environment can be improved. Often, non-minorities members feel as though they are “not allowed” to be part of a minority-oriented ERG. However, allies should be strongly encouraged to join an ERG. Being a member can help them in their development to become better allies, and it can help the ERG become stronger with the addition of more members and therefore view- points and experiences. Similarly, allyship can be promoted as part of mentorship programs. Any mentor who has ally training or at least an understanding of ally issues will be a stronger mentor because of it.

When practitioners are promoting allyship in either development programs, ERGs, mentorship, or any other diversity management tool, they may want to have these opportunities open to all. However, practitioners may want to consider target- ing and selecting individuals who are more likely to be receptive to be part of these programs: as discussed, those who have some sort of personal connection to minori- ties (Fingerhut, 2011; Scheer & Poteat, 2016; Sue, 2017) as well as feelings of social justice (DeTurk, 2011; Edwards, 2006). Perhaps these people may currently be “pas- sive” allies (Grzanka et al., 2015) and not realize that they can be more of a resource if they become “active.” HR professionals can help them in this journey.

In general, it is important for one centralized unit to be thoughtful about all these different aspects of how allyship can be utilized in an organization. Collins and Chlup (2014) discussed the HR department as the best place for this to be cen- tered. One reason this department can be especially well suited to develop and implement these programs is because of the power it has to enact organizational change and be a voice for minority populations, which is necessary for allyship to be effective (DeTurk, 2011; Sabat et al., 2013). Therefore, it is important for HR departments to be thoughtful about this topic and search out ways they can embrace it.