# Allyship in the Workplace

previously; this type of work draws people together and results in better connec- tions. A second consistent theme in these two qualitative studies was that allies also felt positive about being part of the minority community more broadly. Allies are important members of a minority community, and membership in a community is a positive experience for many.

It should be noted that not everything about being an ally is positive; at times allies experience negative outcomes because of being an ally to a minority commu- nity. For some, speaking out about prejudice and discrimination could be a fearful experience (Smith & Redington, 2010); talking about these things may result in others viewing them negatively, possibly leading to isolation and/or career problems (Sue, 2017). Being an ally can also at times feel uncomfortable if the ally experiences “imposter syndrome,” which refers to feeling uncomfortable because of not know- ing enough about the issues minorities experience (Sue, Torino, Capodilupo, Rivera, & Lin, 2009). Finally, for some communities, being an ally may make others believe one is a minority him or herself, which can be uncomfortable for some. Many have found that heterosexual allies can at times fear others thinking they are LGBTQ themselves (Duhigg et al., 2010; Grzanka et al., 2015). Although there are at times negative aspects of being an ally, many still take on this role, sug- gesting that for many, the positive outcomes outweigh the negative.