---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 03efeb7f83161dcc27f16b10bfe59b4e3a7a73b4
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
## 148 Nicholas P. Salter and Leslie Migliaccio

involved in any change initiative), but practitioners and researchers should still explore this issue.

Also, as previously discussed, more research examining allies to other communi- ties besides women, people of color, and the LGBTQ community is important (Broido, 2000; Davis & Wagner, 2005; Reason & Broido, 2005; Reason et al., 2005). It is likely that research on allies to one minority community (such as sexual minorities) may not translate exactly to other minority communities (such as people with disabilities), so the nuances and differences should be empirically explored. Also, ally research should not contribute to the silencing of other less-explored minority communities (such as those discussed above) by not including them in research. Ignoring these other communities in ally research may reinforce them being ignored by mainstream society, resulting in more negative effects for already disadvantaged groups.

Finally, as can be seen by our review of the previous research, research on ally- ship has a rich history of including both qualitative and quantitative methodologies. We echo this and encourage future researchers in the field to continue this tradition. There are advantages and disadvantages of course to both types of research, but allyship may be particularly well suited for qualitative research because of the highly personal and introspective nature of the experience. This does not mean quantitative methods should be excluded for ally research, but a balance of the two would be helpful.
