data/clean/361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152__chunk0018.md, before:

# Action and Advocacy

The third major activity allies do is behavior; in addition to allies learning and understanding the issues at hand as well as communicating with others about it, allies also do things to support and promote minority communities. There are many behaviors allies can do. First, allies can be advocates to tangibly benefit minority populations. For instance, Sabat et al. (2014) suggested allies display signs at their workplace to show they are supportive of minority rights (such as a heterosexual displaying for LGBTQ people). indicating Additionally, Fingerhut (2011) suggested allies can donate time or money to causes, or they could sign petitions (such as a petition to bar LGBTQ discrimination). Participating in events, rallies, and trainings are also an important part of ally advo- cacy (DeTurk, 2011; Fingerhut; Sabat et al.). Perrin et al. (2014) built off of this idea by suggesting that advocacy can be more public, such as supporting anti- discrimination publicly in an online blog or other platform.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152__chunk0018.md, after:

---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0fca4697fee910794487d3330a69e262ed678e0b
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
## 136 Nicholas P. Salter and Leslie Migliaccio

sign of acceptance, and should not hesitate to voice their views on social justice, as well as teach others about these issues.

One particular subset of communication is confrontation; allies often confront prejudice and discrimination in others. This may happen in the context of language (such as when someone informally says “That’s so gay” during a conversation in a break room) or behaviors (such as when a person is not considered for a promo- tional opportunity solely because of his or her race). Within previous research, the role of allies in confronting others is perhaps the most commonly discussed sugges- tion for what it is allies do (Ashburn-Nardo, 2018; DeTurk, 2011; Drury & Kaiser, 2014; Lapointe, 2015; Sabat et al., 2014; Spanierman & Smith, 2017b); it is widely agreed upon that this is a key aspect of being an ally to any minority group. Confrontation can lead to positive change; a recent meta-analysis showed that con- fronting prejudice can be effective in changing behaviors (Smith et al., 2018). Lapointe discussed confrontation in the context of “breaking down the bystander effect”; allies not only refuse to be passive bystanders themselves by speaking up in the face of prejudice but also encourage others to not be bystanders or ignore preju- dice either. DeTurk added that allies at times use the different sources of authority they may possess to combat prejudice and discrimination. For instance, an ally might invoke an institutional policy (such as an HR anti-discrimination policy) when they see prejudice occurs.
