# Keywords: Allyship; allies; diversity management; diversity intervention; workplace inclusion; organizational culture change

Within the workplace, supporting diversity and achieving equity and inclusion are important in order to ensure that organizations are as effective and as socially responsible as possible. Although minorities often play important roles in these efforts, they need not work alone. To complement the work of minorities, allies, that is, non-minority individuals who are supportive of minority communities, can be an important diversity management tool for promoting equity and inclusion. As this chapter will discuss, research has shown that allies can be powerful tools to help promote equity and inclusion. Therefore, management and workplace profes- sionals can leverage previous research on the topic (from both organizational and non-organizational contexts) and apply it to job settings to gain the many benefits allyship can yield.

The goal of this chapter is to review previous literature on allyship across multi- ple disciplines and apply it to the workplace. We present a representative sample of all the topics and concerns that have been being discussed within the allyship litera- ture and synthesize it into one review. After our literature review, we end the chap- ter with a discussion of the practical implications as well as future research suggestions stemming from our review. Overall, we frame our discussions in this chapter to address how allyship can be an important diversity management tool that can be used to enact positive change within organizations. We aim to make this chapter a useful tool for HR and management academics and professionals; we present the topic so that practitioners can easily apply the content to their organiza- tion, as well as to spur future research among academics on the topic.