## 142 Nicholas P. Salter and Leslie Migliaccio

First, previous research has identified that those who feel some sort of personal connection to a minority community are more likely to become an ally. For instance, a common and simple way of connecting with the community in this way is by being friends with a minority (Fingerhut, 2011; Scheer & Poteat, 2016). Sue (2017) argued that in order to become an ally, one needs to “make it personal.” In other words, the motivation to become an ally often starts with knowing someone and therefore feeling a direct and authentic connection to minority issues, struggles, and experiences. Seeing someone one cares about (such as a friend) experience hard- ship due to their minority status can inspire a person to become an ally in order to help.

A personal connection to minorities or a minority community may drive some- one to become an ally for multiple reasons. In part, this may be effective because of the emotional aspect of connecting with someone else. Being friends with someone makes one care about the person, which then therefore results in one wanting the best for the person (cid:1) and therefore standing up for them as an ally. However, a personal connection may also function simply by educating the potential ally about the issues surrounding the minority community. As previously noted, Jones et al. (2014) found that knowledge of minority issues as well as awareness of oppression were two important factors for identifying potential LGBTQ allies. Having a per- sonal connection with a minority or a minority community may afford the potential ally an opportunity to both learn the necessary knowledge and to become aware of the oppression these communities face.

Another theme common in previous literature with regard to who chooses to become an ally is motivation to become an ally because of feelings of justice or feel- ings against prejudice (Fingerhut, 2011). Although a personal connection is often important for ally development, Edwards (2006) suggested that this may not be enough. Rather, he argued that being motivated to become an ally because of social justice leads to more sustainable and meaningful allyship than motivation because of altruism and/or self-interest. In DeTurk’s (2011) analysis of qualitative interviews with allies, many described becoming an ally as a “moral imperative.” These people feel as though it is simply the right thing to do, regardless of whether or not it directly affects them or their friends and family. For some, it may be that the jour- ney to becoming an ally starts with a personal connection with a minority but is sustained because of strong feelings of justice and the desire to stop the discrimina- tion and prejudice their eyes have been opened to.

Dillon et al. (2004) as well as Duhigg et al. (2010) both conducted qualitative interview studies examining (among other factors) what makes someone decide to become an ally, and their findings reflected the themes previously discussed here. However, they also both highlighted that for many people, there is often a specific incident that triggers a person to decide to become an ally. Dillon et al. referred to this as a “critical incident”; that is, some sort of turning point that caused the inter- viewees to make “attitudinal, affective, behavioral, and/or cognitive changes” (p. 43). Duhigg et al. highlighted that this can often be an early life experience with one’s family; a family member who exhibited prejudice and discrimination may cause the child to choose to disavow these attitudes and beliefs when they grow up.