---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 84cc4bcfdd2b3a6d728fd0a27ce9e8c4b14bb476
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
# Allyship in the Workplace

aware of minority experiences. Gaining knowledge is key for allies; in developing a measure of allyship, Jones, Brewster, and Jones (2014) found that knowledge and awareness were two of the three major factors identified by allies as critical aspects of what makes them an ally.

There are many topics of which allies can learn about. For instance, allies should be aware of and understanding of the mechanisms that cause discrimination. In the context of gender, Drury and Kaiser (2014) suggested that male allies must learn to recognize sexism when it occurs. However, Becker and Swim (2011) found that this can be especially difficult for men to do when sexism is subtle (as compared to overt sexism); allies should be especially mindful of this. For other communities where misinformation can be common, such as the LGBTQ community, understanding learning to separate myth from fact (Perrin, minority issues can also entail Bhattacharyya, Snipes, Calton, & Heesacker, 2014). This type of learning can come from talking directly with minorities, and/or by seeking out external resources to find out more.

Understanding minority experiences is not solely about minorities, though; part of what needs to be understood is the role the majority population plays, be it 2008; intentional in minority Montgomery & Stewart, 2012; Reason & Broido, 2005). For instance, Spanierman and Smith (2017b) suggested that White people must understand institutional rac- ism, White privilege, and their own possible racism in order to truly be allies to peo- ple of color. Related, Ashburn-Nardo (2018) highlighted the importance of understanding and being aware of one’s own prejudices and beliefs; she argued that allies should not inadvertently be “part of the problem” (p. 374). This type of learn- ing can be challenging and psychologically difficult for non-minorities to fully con- front, but it is necessary in order to truly be an ally and advocate for minority communities.
