---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7583dfc34ba6e24a150ffb4d05cc63494d108822
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
# us/diversity

Go´ rska, P., Bilewicz, M., & Winiewski, M. (2017). Invisible to the state. Institutional sexual stigma and collective action of LGB individuals in five East European countries. Group Processes & Intergroup Relations, 20, 367(cid:1)381.

Griffith, K. H., & Hebl, M. R. (2002). The disclosure dilemma for gay men and lesbians:

“Coming out” at work. Journal of Applied Psychology, 87, 1191(cid:1)1199.

Grzanka, P. R., Adler, J., & Blazer, J. (2015). Making up allies: The identity choreography

of straight LGBT activism. Sexuality Research and Social Policy, 12, 165(cid:1)181.

Helms, J. E. (1995). An update of Helms’s white and people of color racial identity models. In J. G. Ponterotto, J. M. Casas, L. A. Suzuki, & C. M. Alexander (Eds.), Handbook of multicultural counseling (pp. 181(cid:1)198). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Hyers, L. L. (2010). Alternatives to silence in face-to-face encounters with everyday hetero-

sexism: Activism on the interpersonal front. Journal of Homosexuality, 57, 539(cid:1)565.

Jayne, M. E. A., & Dipboye, R. L. (2004). Levering diversity to manage business perfor- mance: Research findings and recommendations for organizations. Human Resource Management, 43, 409(cid:1)424.

Jones, K. N., Brewster, M. E., & Jones, J. A. (2014). The creation and validation of the LGBT ally identity measure. Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity, 1, 181(cid:1)195.

Krings, F., Johnston, C., Binggeli, S., & Maggiori, C. (2014). Selective incivility: Immigrant groups experience subtle workplace discrimination at different rates. Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychology, 20, 491(cid:1)498.

Lapointe, A. A. (2015). Standing “straight” up to homophobia: Straight allies’ involvement
