---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e44d993be95479a0c851c1045f027b6b8fdaef92
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
# Allyship in the Workplace

As will be discussed, allyship has not received extensive empirical attention in organizational settings (Sabat et al., 2013). However, the topic has been extensively studied in other fields, such as childhood education (e.g., Clark, 2010; Zammitt, Pepperell, & Coe, 2015), college education (e.g., Alimo, 2012; Munin & Speight, 2010; Ryan, Broad, Walsh, & Nutter, 2013), and therapy (Asta & Vacha-Haase, 2013; Spanierman & Smith, 2017a; Sue, 2017), among other fields. Allyship is prominently discussed within actual organizations, though. For examples, many organizations have employee resource groups (ERGs) which often include allies include within minorities. Some prominent organizations American Express (American Express Global Diversity and Inclusion, n.d.), Google (Employees and Culture, n.d.), and Microsoft (Global Diversity and Inclusion Home, n.d.). Even though organizational scholars may not have conducted exten- sive empirical research on the topic, organizations themselves are aware of and pro- moting the topic.

that have ERGs

Allyship may be particularly useful as a cross-cultural tool. Across the world, the amount and type of discrimination and prejudice that is most salient differ, as well as legal protections for minority groups (Lloren & Parini, 2017), and the effects are often influenced by the particular region of the world being studied as well (Go´ rska, Bilewicz, & Winiewski, 2017; Shaffer, Joplin, Bell, Lau, & Oguz, 2000). Organizations that are globally oriented may struggle to find a coherent diversity and inclusion strategy that works regardless of location. However, allyship can exist everywhere, regardless of what type of discrimination is most salient or what legal protections exist. Therefore, this is a diversity and inclusion initiative that many global organizations may find to be a particularly useful tool to include in their programming.

As stated, the goal of this chapter is to demonstrate how allyship can be a tool HR practitioners can use to spur positive change within organizations, as well as to promote further research and learning on the topic from management-related aca- demics. To accomplish this, we conducted an extensive literature review on the topic and we synthesized all the previous research on the topic into one comprehensive chapter. Before we review the literature, though, we will first explain our methodol- ogy for gathering sources relevant to our topic.
