---
source_path: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1089e4052af934d0e877cdc6958a15517c5e782f
title: 361_emerald_asm_v022_3611783_ch007_131_152
---
## 140 Nicholas P. Salter and Leslie Migliaccio

shows that when there is a culture of support within an organization, there are many positive outcomes for minorities. For instance, within the LGBTQ literature, there is extensive research suggesting that organizational-supportive policies are associated with multiple positive outcomes, such as well-being and job satisfaction (Griffith & Hebl, 2002; Lloren & Parini, 2017; Ragins & Cornwell, 2001; Rostosky & Riggle, 2002). Examples of organizational-supportive policies that lead to these outcomes include nondiscrimination policies, health insurance for same-sex partners, and disciplinary measures to prevent discrimination. If an organization supports minorities (i.e., if the organization itself is seen as an “ally”), positive out- comes will ensue, in much the same way positive outcomes come from individuals being supportive of minorities.

It should be noted that in order for allies to fully impact the culture in a mean- ingful way, their own motivation and dedication to being an ally must run deep. Russell and Bohan (2016) referred to this as the difference between first-order and second-order change. They defined first-order change as “relatively superficial; it aims to modify existing practices but does not challenge institutional structures or hierarchies of power and privilege” (p. 341). On the other hand, second-order change is “foundational change; it works to alter structures and challenge hierar- chies of power” (p. 341). Russell and Bohan argued that second-order change is necessary in order for allies to make a real impact on those around them. This theme also emerged in Grzanka, Adler, and Blazer’s (2015) qualitative interviews with allies; respondents reported that allyship must be “active” and not “passive” in order to be truly effective. In general, it is important to emphasize that allies should be truly motivated to enact real change, instead of only generally supporting minor- ity rights but not doing specific actions to achieve this goal. It is through this that the real impacts of allyship are seen.
