# Allyship in the Workplace

social capital they wield in organizations (DeTurk; Sabat et al., 2014). Non- minorities are often afforded a level of power and respect; allies wield this power to promote positive change.

Related to our previous discussion about communication, though, it should be noted that much advocacy work occurs in conversations between people (Lapointe, 2015; Spanierman & Smith, 2017b). Often, educating people on minority issues and persuading them to change their minds is a powerful form of advocacy. As was the case previously, this may feel less tangible and immediately effective (cid:1) but it is still an important part of ally advocacy. Many times, people may not be allies because they are uneducated or uninformed about the issues, and not because they are unsupportive. If an ally educates these people, it can help create positive change (and possibly create more allies as well).

it should also be noted that allies can support minorities directly. Ashburn-Nardo (2018) highlighted the importance of offering emotional support to minorities. Additionally, DeTurk (2011) gave an example of an ally letting immi- grants who do not speak English well and do not have many resources use the ally’s phone and computer as well as help these immigrants with communication in gen- eral. Something as simple as this may not be overly arduous for an ally but may be invaluable for the minority. DeTurk also suggested that offering rides to doctor appointments is another example of supportive ally behavior. Examples such as these demonstrate that an ally can support a person in general and need not solely be supportive of the person in the context of combatting prejudice and discrimina- tion (which may be what most people think of when they think of allyship).

Finally,