data/clean/426__chunk0023.md, before:

## As studies about workforce heterogeneity confirm, diversity

Consequently, more research is required to evaluate the contextual factors outside and inside the organization that may affect the impact of diversity. Such studies should define some external aspects of context including the national culture, occupation, industry, and legal context, while each of these context factors may have distinct consequences with wide or limited implications for people, communities, and organizations. Similarly, internal organizational contextual impacts of organizational culture, strategy, and human resource practices should be examined together with the role of leadership in fostering an inclusive environment in order to mitigate disadvantage and encourage positive outcomes and performance at all levels. The contradictory findings about the impacts of diversity may be due to the large number of contextual variables that influence organizations and employees (Jackson et al., 2003; Kochan et al., 2003; Webber & Donahue, 2001), and an integrated approach is important to unlock the black box” of the effects of diversity’s effects.

There’s widespread agreement on the need to foster an environment that values and celebrates diversity. However, keeping word on assurances and fulfilling commitments made is not always simple. An integrated strategy that can help overcome constraints and explain how D&I can be managed is one of the main challenges for HRM in modern organizations. Reshaped strategies are required to transform D&I into an enhanced employee experience and a strategic advantage for the organization. It is time to adopt a new approach where D&I should be an integral part of the formulation and implementation of company strategy and embedded in the continuous operations of the organization.

Organizational structures are dynamic organisms that shape and are shaped by the individuals that compose communities and sub-communities of practice; the implications of these notions could be used to effect changes and induce learning processes within an organizational context (Wenger, 1999, 2011). Communities of practice are not ahistorical nor neutral: they subsume values and beliefs that are contextualized in operational paradigms. These values have been institutionalized in organizational procedures and, in some cases, could serve to perpetuate rather than tackle inequalities.

The governance of communities of practice is not subjected to the traditional vertical hierarchies that align with traditional models of leadership in organizations but foster horizontal accountability. The latter fosters distributed leadership patterns, a strong sense of belonging and

436

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/426__chunk0023.md, after:

---
source_path: 426.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: dae3b1414f627a608d564bee4cf594ac99dad2fb
title: '426'
---
## International Journal of Organizational Leadership 11(2022) 436

management, provide adequate legitimization for said management. Nonetheless, the intrinsic moral importance of diversity management strengthens and broadens this legitimacy's foundation, building the ethically commendable pillar alongside the profitable one. Complexity in diversity management will continue due to its multifaceted character. This tendency is reinforced by continuous changes at the social level such as ongoing migratory movements and related needs of inclusion, including challenges arising from the shrinking workforce, resulting from the declining birth rate and the aging population (Köllen, 2021).

is complex and multidimensional, and an in-depth analysis of the concept is needed. Employees can vary across a broad range of demographic characteristics (age, gender, and ethnicity), and the projected impacts of each kind of diversity are not necessarily the same (Jackson et al., 2003). Before creating a set of HR practices for managing diversity, it is essential to examine and precisely define the types of differences the business must manage (Alcázar et al., 2013).
