# 441 Morfaki & Morfaki

Kirkman, B. L., Tesluk, P. E., & Rosen, B. (2004). The impact of demographic heterogeneity and team leader-team member

demographic fit on team empowerment and effectiveness. Group & Organization Management, 29(3), 334–368.

Klawitter, M. M., & Flatt, V. (1998). The effects of state and local antidiscrimination policies on earnings for gays and lesbians. Journal of Policy Analysis and Management: The Journal of the Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management, 17(4), 658–686.

Kochan, T., Bezrukova, K., Ely, R., Jackson, S., Joshi, A., Jehn, K., Leonard, J., Levine, D., & Thomas, D. (2003). The effects of diversity on business performance: Report of the diversity research network. Human Resource Management: Published in Cooperation with the School of Business Administration, The University of Michigan and in Alliance with the Society of Human Resources Management, 42(1), 3–21.

Köllen, T. (2021). Diversity Management: A Critical Review and Agenda for the Future. Journal of Management Inquiry,

30(3), 259–272. https://doi.org/10.1177/1056492619868025

Krell, G. (2014). Gender und Diversity: Eine Diskursgeschichte. Gender Cage-Revisited, 317–342.

Kulik, C. T., Perry, E. L., & Bourhis, A. C. (2000). Ironic evaluation processes: Effects of thought suppression on evaluations of older job applicants. Journal of Organizational Behavior: The International Journal of Industrial, Occupational and Organizational Psychology and Behavior, 21(6), 689–711.

Kulkarni, M., & Lengnick‐Hall, M. L. (2011). Socialization of people with disabilities in the workplace. Human Resource

Management, 50(4), 521–540.

Lange, T. (2008). Communist legacies, gender and the impact on job satisfaction in Central and Eastern Europe. European