---
source_path: 426.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: df497ed31179d7a5b57a66940dbe71609100a90d
title: '426'
---
# 437 Morfaki & Morfaki

interdependence, and commitment to collective productivity through the development of roles and identities which are complementary yet distinct and valued within their own right.

If productivity and effective performance are viewed as an interplay between individuals and structures which is co-constructed within landscapes of practice, then the competences of organizational communities should be challenged by diversity and forced to reconsider traditional means of viewing individual and team skills and abilities. The knowledge and new insights created within diverse and inclusive communities have the scope to develop new competencies that are reflective of the globalization of working practices, the advancement of technological innovations, and new modes of working and belonging.

Although communities are distinguished by virtue of their boundaries and social identities and could thus be exclusive, the development of diverse and heterogeneous communities could offer new insights into organizational diversity if supported with relevant policies, practices, and corresponding infrastructures. These efforts should not be limited to tokenistic approaches that aim to demonstrate compliance with legislation but infiltrate the ethos and modus operandi of institutions and organizations. Therefore, institutional and organizational policies, procedures, and practices should be reviewed and reformulated to effect cultural and organizational restructuring. Inclusion and diversity are not concepts that pertain to a change of just one operational aspect within a system-they should entail a reconsideration of the whole system (Nilholm, 2021; Nilholm & Göransson, 2017).

The notions of D&I in the workplace, despite their theoretically unlimited rhetoric (Hansen, 2012, are plagued by institutional and organizational barriers which limit and restrict their potency. These affect the experiences of employees and their capacity to reach professional fulfillment and contribute to the productivity and advancement of organizations. The institutionalization of outdated practices, which in some cases have become part of the historicity of organizations and are often viewed as social constants (Berger & Luckman, 1971), have to be challenged to affect a culture of change. In practice, this would involve the deconstruction of institutionalized practices and the reconstruction of new organizational protocols and structures which are not simply aligned to legislative frameworks but expand to encompass different multicultural notions of performance and productivity, flexible patterns, and innovative modes of working. These new structures should not merely be catering to the needs and specific requirements of employees but should aim to reduce barriers, enhance participatory means of engagement, and redefine performance and productivity in collaboration with employees as well as external organizations and internal networks which represent the rights of minorities and bring their voices to the fore. The production of new working protocols, artifacts, and notions of competencies and performance, which are composed by diverse individuals and communities, who ascribe to different belief and value systems, could promote policies and procedures which transcend localized and restrictive community boundaries and cultivate effective intercommunal and interprofessional communication and collaboration.
