---
source_path: 426.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ffe5218a89860fa2780a8164907c20b322762f31
title: '426'
---
## International Journal of Organizational Leadership 11(2022) 434

Specifically, European Commission study (2005), and others have reported that the main business benefits of focusing on diversity are the ability to recruit from a larger pool of candidates and retain better employees for longer (Iles, 1995; McKay et al., 2007; Ross & Schneider, 1992), broader market intelligence and internationalization (Cox & Blake, 1991), and greater creativity and innovation (Gardenswartz & Rowe, 1998; Iles, 1995; Wilson, 1996), diverse perspectives on business issues with an emphasis on enhanced problem-solving and decision-making (Flood et al., 2001), improved marketing (Metcalf & Forth, 2000), increased community connections as well as an improved image for the firm (Nykiel, 1997), decreased costs associated with turnover and absenteeism (Armstrong et al., 2010; Kandola, 1995; Ross & Schneider, 1992).

Notably, some researchers question the logical integrity of the business case as well as how the notion of diversity is utilized (Metcalfe & Woodhams, 2012; Noon, 2007). Others dispute the extent to which diversity policies are implemented when they exist (Hoque & Noon, 2004) and the degree to which the change from equal opportunities to diversity management is accompanied by a shift in practice (Tatlı, 2010). More compelling evidence from a range of settings influenced by a wide variety of conditions, as well as a more comprehensive interpretation of techniques relevant to D&I management, are required to better understand the causes, consequences, and approaches to D&I management.

The Shape of Diversity Management Practices Two separate, but linked, difficulties or questions are addressed by diversity management methods. When diversity is viewed as a desirable condition in and of itself, diversity management must take methods that increase the variety of an organization's workforce. On the other hand, diversity management must consider how to make the workplace as inclusive and feasible for the current diversity. The issue of sustaining the diversity of an organization incorporates both issues. Recruiting-related diversity management techniques are most closely associated with the level of workforce diversity. To support the recruitment of diverse personnel, these strategies may include targeted diversity recruiting, campaigns to reach potential applicants from the desired recruitment pool (McKay & Avery, 2005, 2006), or the provision of incentives for the recruiter to promote the recruitment of a diverse workforce (Tipper, 2004).

The implementation of recruitment procedures that promote diversity is applicable across a range of organizations that operate within national contexts and set quotas to meet legislative requirements. The diversity image and reputation associated with institutions has been claimed to constitute a significant criterion in the selection of employment posts by prospective employees from ethnic minorities. Therefore, the diversity image projected by organizations could serve to increase the percentage of applications from underrepresented groups and, in the long term, result in their successful employment and effective retention (Edwards & Kelan, 2011; McKay & Avery, 2006). If, however, this image is also the product of a positive and encouraging diversity atmosphere within the business, then employer-branding initiatives are closely tied to those activities that aim to make the organization inclusive of the diversity that already exists within it.

Diversity training is another prevalent technique in this second set of approaches to diversity management. This training, which can take a variety of forms, attempts to increase managers'

434
