---
source_path: 426.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6e2c471b4e5f0f2c5fc71213dafaf8c4857d23c9
title: '426'
---
# 429 Morfaki & Morfaki

candidates from groups that have historically been subjected to unfair exclusion and discrimination. Although AA and EEO are connected to the concept of D&I, they have distinct meanings (Hays-Thomas, 2022).

Dimensionality in the Field of Diversity and Inclusion Management It is vital to note, at least theoretically, that an unlimited number of aspects of diversity must be considered (Prasad & Mills, 1997). For instance, research and practice in the United States primarily focus on the "Big 8" (i.e. race, gender, ethnicity / nationality, organizational role / function, age, sexual orientation, mental / physical ability, and religion), (Plummer, 2003) whereas, in Germany, 4-6 major dimensions include gender, migratory background, age, family situation / work-life balance, and occasionally disability and sexual orientation (Krell, 2014). The majority of dimensions considered in the United Kingdom are based on the Equality Act, which came into force in 2010; its aim was to protect the rights of individuals in the workplace and wider society and establish clear regulations that prevent discrimination and criminalize unlawful treatment on the basis of certain protected characteristics (Equality Act, 2010). Despite its reported failure to meet the government's intrinsic and extrinsic objectives (Blackham, 2016), it still serves as a guide for the consideration of equality and equity; the dimensions drawn are thus relevant to political and social activists' agendas and are used herein to explore current perspectives on the matter.

Diversity might encompass any dimension with which persons identify or differ with respect to a particular expression of that dimension (Köllen, 2021). This is significant because different characteristics may be vital in different contexts for inclusion, exclusion, and hierarchization processes (Shore et al., 2011).

In a globalized world of borderless and virtual organizations, it is essential to reexamine the traditional ideas of diversity and develop new paradigms. Consequently, multiple dimensions of diversity are used to evaluate the current state of the research and to formulate proposals for the future. To assess how this literature has evolved, we examine six dimensions of diversity (race and ethnicity, culture, gender, age, disability, and sexual orientation).

Although diversity embodies a wide range of socially construed or biological traits, characteristics, and beliefs that serve to support the inclusion of individuals and populations, the commonalities shared among humans, and the differences upon which they distinguish are endless and cannot be accounted for within the scope of a study. The dimensions examined below could therefore be considered limited and limiting. Nonetheless, they still aim to highlight the repression and inequalities that individuals and groups of employees have faced in their professional and personal spheres of engagement within communities and highlight matters related to emancipation in the workplace that remain largely unaddressed.

Race and Ethnicity Diversity Earlier research (1960s–1980s), prompted by the introduction of the Civil Rights Act in the United States, investigated whether discrimination and prejudice existed in selection, training, performance assessments, promotions, and other crucial human resource tasks (Shore et al., 2011). In terms of job satisfaction, engagement, motivation, leadership, and performance, much research has been conducted on variations across ethnic and racial groups (Denson & Chang,
