---
source_path: 426.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ea993dfd854aff506dc9b78f28be20fa76f5f17c
title: '426'
---
# 433 Morfaki & Morfaki

practices and organizational performance (Wang & Schwarz, 2010), the prevalence of such practices is not ubiquitous. There is a paucity of empirical research about the factors influencing organizational choices to implement LGBT-friendly policies. A future study might provide additional insight into the role of institutional processes in the adoption of LGBT-friendly policies by organizations in various circumstances (Theodorakopoulos & Budhwar, 2015).

The Business Case for Diversity and Inclusion As the discipline progressed, practitioners and researchers realized that in order for diversity programs to succeed in work organizations, a persuasive business justification would be required to justify the allocation of resources and administrative support for this activity. This led to the creation of the D&I business case, which asserts that effective diversity management increases firm profitability (Hays-Thomas, 2022).

Cox (1997) developed conceptual arguments for diversity management initiatives based on organizational profitability. He presented a number of characteristics that result in improved profit for an organization that effectively manages diversity. It should be noted that these are not only arguments in favor of diversity; they also make a case for effective diversity management.

- 1. Marketing strategy. Companies that are internally diverse will be more able to comprehend their increasingly varied customer/client base and will likely commit fewer public relations missteps connected to ethnicity. A public relations benefit is the perception that a corporation "does diversity well."

- 2. Resource acquisition. Talented minority applicants, as well as others, may be more willing to accept work with a firm with a favorable reputation for diversity. High-ability employees from various backgrounds may be interested in underrepresented group perks and processes.

- 3. Better problem solving. The varied expertise and knowledge of diverse employees ought to result in a broader range of information and options as well as improved critical assessments. In order for this to occur, group dynamics must be precisely handled.

- 4. More creativity and innovation. This should also result from a broader range of information and experience, but only if group procedures are controlled so that creative ideas may compete for adoption.

- 5. Greater system flexibility (Cox & Blake, 1991). An organization with greater internal diversity should be better equipped to adapt to changing external situations, such as competition, economic or labor market shifts, or new laws and regulations.

Well-managed organizational diversity may cut costs and boost profitability, according to Cox (1997). If managed correctly, diversity should reduce minority retreat behaviors and thus reduce absenteeism and turnover. Well-managed diversified organizations should have less sexism and racism and greater opportunities for underrepresented groups to contribute. Good diversity management should prevent losses due to language, communication style, and feedback openness and provide more effective communication. Lost productivity, absenteeism, turnover, and conflict are costly. Costs should be reduced if intergroup interactions are cordial and harassment is rare. Fair and open treatment of employees should save expenses with fewer discrimination lawsuits.

It has been demonstrated that diversity within work groups and teams has its own benefits, including a good return on investment from human capital (Gardenswartz & Rowe, 1998)
