---
source_path: 426.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 883e3ee99622dd0722687487b054f7d563174b57
title: '426'
---
# 435 Morfaki & Morfaki

and employees' understanding of stereotype-based diversity-related prejudices and, as a result, to facilitate intergroup relations in the workplace (Alhejji et al., 2016). As a foundation of their diversity management strategies, several firms worldwide have developed mentorship programs for women, minority personnel, and other disadvantaged groups. It is considered that members of more privileged groups have easier access to resources such as internal knowledge and networks (Clutterbuck & Ragins, 2002). These programs intend to provide these groups with access to the same resources.

The diversity management practice of forming employee network affinity groups is motivated by the same reasoning. The establishment of minority networks, specifically serving underrepresented communities in the workforce, has been considered critical in workplace coaching and mentoring practices; the former has been reported to provide support strategies for these populations and equip them with the necessary skills and resources to enable them to navigate organizational contexts. Equally, such voluntary networks could enhance representation, bring the voices of minority employees to the fore, and engage in the management of diversity-related tasks. Diverse representation could, in turn, attract a wider customer base based on the organization’s capacity to reflect and address the requirements and differentiated needs of individuals and customer groups. Although not strictly connected to diversity challenges, firms typically include programs aimed at assisting their workers in managing work-life integration more successfully into their diversity strategies. These programs frequently aim to enable the reconciliation of care obligations and employment. Flexible working hours, job-sharing, and childcare options are the most prevalent practices of this kind (Chung & Van der Lippe, 2020; Doherty, 2004).

Gitzi and Köllen (2006) classified seven categories of diversity management practices that are most important. These include a balance between work and personal life; the establishment of networks representing diverse communities; tailored-made coaching and mentoring that addresses the needs and rights of underrepresented groups; the establishment of robust organizational policies tackling inequality; the formulation of cultures that promote diversity through empowerment and training, and the provision of working benefits which encourage integration and inclusion (Gitzi & Köllen, 2006). Despite the fact that the methods may be similar, there are variations in how diversity is contextualized in different national settings. Different regulatory frameworks in various nations may lead to corporate diversity management plans emphasizing certain aspects of workforce diversity while neglecting others (Köllen, 2021).

Challenges and Future Directions of Diversity and Inclusion Management Most diversity researchers agree that diversity management is a " socially just and morally desirable " management approach (Lorbiecki & Jack, 2000, p. 21). The moral value of this strategy is founded on the same grounds that supported the moral value of affirmative action and equal opportunity approaches, namely their contribution to attaining relative equality. The current condition of inequality is characterized principally by unequal representations of members of the specific manifestations of the numerous characteristics of diversity at the various organizational hierarchy levels. The efforts of businesses to increase their profit or maximize shareholder value, together with the anticipated economic value of diversity
