## International Journal of Organizational Leadership 11(2022) 432

Disability Diversity According to the World Health Organization, about 15% of the global population lives with some form of disability, of whom 2-4% face considerable difficulties in functioning (WHO, 2022). Despite the significance of this diversity dimension, disability status is under-researched in D&I management (Colella & Bruyère, 2011). Although there are variances across kinds of disability, prejudice, stereotyping, discrimination, and stigma, literature tends to reflect on disability from a deficit viewpoint (Malo & Pagán, 2012; Schur et al., 2009). Positively, it has been stated that organizations are gradually recognizing the significance of attracting and integrating a diverse workforce (Ball et al., 2005), while diversity culture was found to be the strongest and most constant predictor of workplace discrimination against persons with disabilities (Gagnon & Cornelius, 2002). A deeper knowledge of the conditions, which, in some cases, transform impairment into disability, allows for the successful inclusion of people with disabilities and better use of their skills. Such employees have special requirements that can be met through workplace changes or flexible schedules (Wooten, 2008). Prior research shows that organizational flexibility is key to successfully including workers with disabilities (Kulkarni & Lengnick‐Hall, 2011). Corporate leadership and culture encourage or discourage disability-inclusive attitudes and behaviors (Schur et al., 2005). Understanding disparities in disability employee satisfaction can lead to policies and practices that increase their satisfaction. Identifying possible boundary constraints that reduce job satisfaction variations might affect effectiveness and workplace success.

Sexual Orientation Diversity In the organizational behavior literature, theories related to sexual orientation involve relational demography, stereotyping, and stigma (Shore et al., 2009). Although these approaches presume that the sexual orientation of workers is prevalent, some homosexual or bisexual individuals may hide their sexual orientation (Ozturk & Rumens, 2014; Ragins & Wiethoff, 2005). The body of work about diversity on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transsexual (LGBT) persons in organizations has been formed primarily by a concentration on heterosexism and discriminatory behaviors. Greater levels of stress among this disadvantaged group of workers (Waldo, 1999), fewer prospects for job progression (Ragins & Cornwell, 2001), and reduced remuneration for homosexual men (Berg & Lien, 2002; Blandford, 2003) are consequences of heterosexism.

Occupational concentration has been proposed as a possible cause for sexual orientation salary disparities (Blandford, 2003; Ellis & Riggle, 1996; Klawitter & Flatt, 1998). Lesbians and gay men may choose to work in lower-paying industries or jobs if they are permitted to reveal their sexual orientation in the workplace. In other words, they would sacrifice higher- paying careers in professions where sexual orientation must be concealed. The organizational demography concept has also been utilized to explore the effect of intersectionality and multiple group affiliations on sexual orientation discrimination and disclosure at work (Ragins & Wiethoff, 2005).

However, there is still more to be done to improve the situation of women and people from LGBT community (ILGA- Europe, 2017; International Labour Office, 2016), and more work focusing on sexual orientation from an inclusivity standpoint is required. Despite the introduction of Anti-discrimination legislation/Equality Acts in several nations and evidence of a favorable correlation between the implementation of LGBT-friendly human resource

432