---
source_path: 426.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0cdb473c85246819ce216f1eebd5a6fc1289971e
title: '426'
---
## International Journal of Organizational Leadership 11(2022) 430

2009; McKay & McDaniel, 2006). By the 1990s, diversity research focused on work teams and the business rationale for a diverse workforce (Jackson et al., 2003; Mannix & Neale, 2005).

Contrary to popular belief, the evidence on the influence of ethnic/racial diversity on work development and performance has been inconclusive. According to a number of studies, ethnically diverse teams make better decisions than homogenous ones (McLeod et al., 1996; Watson et al., 1993), but others find non-significant or negative effects (Jehn & Bezrukova, 2004; Kirkman et al., 2004; Riordan, 2000). More research is needed to evaluate organizational policies, management practices, and their diversity-related results. Diversity may be viewed differently and have varying performance effects depending on group tenure, task characteristics, and ethnicity. Furthermore, research could investigate the function of leadership in fostering an inclusive environment to mitigate disadvantages and improve performance.

Cultural Diversity Cultural diversity is connected to ethnic and racial diversity. The implications of cultural diversity on organizational results are debatable (Barinaga, 2007; Gelfand et al., 2007). Both positive and negative logics are supported by theoretical predictions about cultural diversity in organizations (Mannix & Neale, 2005), while previous research has revealed that the influence of cultural homogeneity or heterogeneity on individual effectiveness and group performance is inconsistent and inconclusive (Earley & Mosakowski, 2000; Maznevski & Chudoba, 2000; Milliken & Martins, 1996; Watson et al., 1993).

Cultural variety may benefit individuals, groups, and organizations in terms of information processing, acquiring knowledge, and problem-solving (Cox et al., 1991; Ely & Thomas, 2001). Negative stereotyping and social categorization (Dahlin et al., 2005) imply that cultural differences might challenge inclusiveness and efficient operation of the organization. For this reason, it is possible that various communication strategies would be required, which would be facilitated by strong leadership (Ayoko et al., 2002). Ambiguity in research in culturally diverse teams is mirrored in inter-professional team structure and functioning. It has been noted that a diverse work structure is both a factor in poor performance and a contributor to the occurrence of conflict (Mitchell et al., 2011). While cultural variations affect organizational performance, there is considerable disagreement as to whether these differences have a negative or positive impact. More research is needed to determine what characteristics encourage or hinder inter- professional teamwork (Currie & Suhomlinova, 2006).

Gender Diversity The impact of gender diversity on outcomes at various levels is a central theme in the research in this field. A variety of antecedents, including attitudes toward diversity, group effectiveness and performance, the company's commitment to diversity, a pro-diversity culture, interpersonal deviance (Liao et al., 2004), supervisor-focused impression management behaviors (Barsness et al., 2005), and union attachment (Bacharach & Bamberger, 2004) and the proportion of women corporate directors, have been studied (Berkowitz & Fekula, 1999; Bilimoria, 2006; Ely, 2004; Karakowsky et al., 2004; Mannix & Neale, 2005; Mavin et al., 2014; Rau & Hyland, 2003; Singh & Point, 2006).

In addition, several non-significant findings on outcomes such as group performance, task conflict, relationship conflict, turnover, cohesiveness, attachment in teams, team experiences,

430
