---
source_path: 426.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 74078817bab100a98670bfb52f2f66d69a1427fe
title: '426'
---
# 427 Morfaki & Morfaki

Noon, 2014; Shen et al., 2009; Theodorakopoulos & Budhwar, 2015). The literature review reveals that the topic of workforce D&I has gained worldwide currency among HR managers and organizational leaders, which is now complemented by relevant research. In 2020 and so far, numerous organizations have committed to enhancing their diversity recruiting procedures and providing D&I training. In general, the hiring of D&I specialists increased; more than seventy percent of S&P 500 companies have a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) officer (Fortune, 2022). Consequently, global proliferation of logic that supports D&I management corresponds with an increase in the participation of various groups in the workplace.

Changing values, shifting demography, and intense internal and external rivalry have an impact on organizations as complex dynamic systems. The regulatory, social, moral, and economic pressures exerted on modern organizations have prompted them to commit to diversity, equality, and inclusion concerns and assisted them in adapting to their internal and external environments (Gonzalez, 2010). Ideal policymaking necessitates the dynamic interplay of policy architects at cascading levels of the system, where competing values, interests, ideologies, and risks converge. Numerous studies have emphasized the potential advantages of having a diverse workforce, including findings of improved organizational efficiency, effectiveness, and productivity as previous marginalized employees bring new perspectives, fostering the creativity of work groups, and creating a dynamic that infuses a new breath of collegiality into the organization (Ely & Thomas, 2001).

Despite the fact that a plethora of information is provided on the strategies needed to build an environment that embraces and capitalizes on D&I , there is little evidence that these programs are successful in achieving their intended aims. It is becoming crucial to comprehend how, for instance, organizations are contextualizing their diversity management (DM) promises and their implications for practice.

These vital concerns are not often addressed in the DM literature (Kellough & Naff, 2004). This might be attributed to how challenging it is to confront the “dilemas of difference” (Norwich, 1993) and craft a policy that addresses the requirements for additionality while ensuring commonality and taking into account the plurality of values that underpin these (Norwich, 2002, 2014). Another plausible explanation is that organizations lack the practical skills, resources, and capacity necessary to manage D&I in the workplace. To reconcile the shortfall, they emphasize tokenistic approaches, which are limited to communicating the organization's message about the importance of valuing diversity.

Studies also suggest an implementation gap between what is formally required by policy and what is delivered by line managers (Purcell & Hutchinson, 2007). Ideal policymaking necessitates the dynamic interplay of policy architects at cascading levels of the system, where competing values, interests, ideologies, and risks converge (Soldan & Nankervis, 2014). There is a demand for a comprehensive and situated insight in order to adopt a chain approach to diversity and inclusion management in which each employee will form a vital, valued, and interrelated link.This ensures that no gaps can exist since continuity, flow, and evolution depend on it. In this case, this link is not a restraint but rather the path to the multiple-range growth of the organization, as well as to the freedom of expression, acceptance, and cohesion of its members.

Calls for inclusivity from industrial executives, public sector personalities, and lobbying groups are now popular. When evaluating the terms and conditions under which such groups
