---
source_path: 426.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c3ce1f7ce333720625452bffe57365c4d247ea02
title: '426'
---
## International Journal of Organizational Leadership 11(2022) 428

experience D&I management, disparities in organizations and society become apparent, and a different picture begins to emerge (Greene & Kirton, 2010). Consequently, there is a compelling need to continue examining the extent to which D&I management rhetoric reflects reality and to identify mechanisms that facilitate the expression of voice for silenced minorities in today's increasingly diverse organizations (Bell et al., 2011; Rennstam & Sullivan, 2018; Theodorakopoulos & Budhwar, 2015).

Diversity, Inclusion and Diversity Management: Working Definitions The term “diversity” refers to “differences among people that are likely to affect their acceptance, performance, satisfaction, or progress in an organization” (Hays-Thomas, 2022, p. 12). Consequently, diversity encompasses the most important differences in a given organizational context. Early diversity work focused on integrating individuals who were substantially different to existent employees into the workforce.

However, practitioners and scholars began to see a pattern: women and ethnic minorities were recruited, but they seldom advanced in the organization, and some left within a very short period. Obviously, employing individuals from underrepresented groups is insufficient to sustain diversity. Organizations should likewise evaluate the procedures as well as the causes that contribute to the full acceptance, productivity, and rewards of individuals with differences (Hays-Thomas, 2022).

This condition is known as inclusion, and without it, newcomers, particularly those from underrepresented groups, may feel like “an outsider within the organization” (Collins, 1986). They may experience special stresses, resign prematurely, remain stagnant at entry-level positions, or even be terminated. Thus Inclusion can be defined as the extent to which an employee feels that they are a valued member of the work group by receiving treatment that meets their needs for belongingness and uniqueness (Shore et al., 2011). This description also emphasizes the need for group acceptance as well as the need for individual identity.

There are several definitions of the word "diversity management" (Kandola & Fullerton, 1994; Thomas & Ely, 1996), but two seem to capture the spirit of the notion particularly well (Armstrong et al., 2010). The first defines diversity management as an approach to workplace equality that focuses on equality via “difference” as opposed to' “sameness” (Gagnon & Cornelius, 2002). The second asserts that managing diversity requires knowing that there are differences among people and that, if managed appropriately, these differences are an advantage that contributes to more efficient and successful job performance (Bartz et al., 1990).

Another distinction that must be highlighted is between D& I and terms like Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Affirmative Action (AA). The concept of EEO emerged during the 1960s. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, color, or ethnicity (U.S.E.E.O Commission, 1964). An employer who identifies as an EEO affirms that all eligible candidates will have an equal opportunity for employment without fear or discrimination. EEO ensures equal consideration, not preferential hiring. AA signifies that a business will engage in a variety of outreach efforts to identify and recruit eligible individuals from underrepresented groups. As with EEO, AA does not oblige employers to hire anyone, and definitely not unqualified candidates. EEO is a passive declaration stating that an employer will not engage in unfair discrimination. AA is a proactive declaration indicating the company would act positively or proactively to recruit talented

428
