---
source_path: 543.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a3d7b6d7bf254a855881a91897184ae1a7bde282
title: '543'
---
# The utility of resistance

Industrial progress ﬁnds one of its greatest handicaps in the frequent resistance of both management and workers to change of any sort (McNurry, 1973, p. 380).

Hultman (1979, p. 54) writes that “Unfortu- nately, when the word resistance is mentioned, we tend to ascribe negative con- notations to it. This is a misconception. There are many times when resistance is the most effective response available.” Leigh (1988, p. 73) also writes that “resistance is a perfectly legitimate response of a worker” and Zaltman and Duncan (1977, p. 62) cite Rubin saying that resistance should be used constructively.

That resistance can play a useful role in an organisational change effort certainly stands juxtaposed to a traditional mindset that would view it as an obstacle that is nor mally encountered on the way to a successful change process. Nevertheless, it is a conclu- sion reached by a variety of authors who suggest that there are a number of advan- tages of resistance. When managed carefully, these advantages can in fact be utilised by the organisation to greatly assist change.

First of all, resistance points out that it is a fallacy to consider change itself to be inher- ently good. Change can only be evaluated by its consequences, and these cannot be known with any certainty until the change effort has

Dianne Waddell and Amrik S. Sohal Resistance: a constructive tool for change management
