---
source_path: 543.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e6ade899af3d8cf7a26b39640fe36a0f93cc0892
title: '543'
---
# Introduction

Resistance to change has long been recog- nised as a critically important factor that can inﬂuence the success or otherwise of an organisational change effort. Research undertaken by Maurer (1996) indicated that one-half to two-thirds of all major corporate change efforts fail and resistance is the “lit- tle-recognised but critically important con- tributor” to that failure (p. 56). Research undertaken in the UK by Oakland and Sohal (1987) also found that resistance was one of the major impediments to the use of produc- tion management techniques by British pro- duction managers. Similarly, Eisen et al. (1992) and Terziovski et al. (1997) found resis- tance by management and workers to be the major impediment to the use of quality man- agement practices in Australian manufactur- ing industry.

Not that resistance is solely to blame for these statistics, Kotter et al. (1986) comment that there is a tendency amongst managers to approach change with a simple set of beliefs that end up exacerbating the problems that arise because they fail to understand them in any systematic manner. One such “simple belief” is that a change process that occurs with only minimal resistance must have been a good change that was managed well. This assumption is somewhat naïve and belies a common perspective that casts resistance in a negative light. Resistance is often viewed by managers as the enemy of change, the foe which must be overcome if a change effort is to be successful (Schein, 1988, p. 243).

success organisations have in securing suc- cessful change.
