---
source_path: 543.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f0ea076fbb4f37a5b99fad2feae784f1f71883f3
title: '543'
---
# The management of resistance

The suggestions and prescriptions of correct resistance management contain a curious dualism; while they appear to embrace much of the understanding of resistance gained from the 1960s and 1970s they simultaneously ignore the suggestion that, in certain instances, there is utility to be gained.

The overwhelming suggestion in the man- agement literature is that participative tech- niques are the best method of handling resis- tance. Employee participation in manage- ment as a means of resolving resistance has been investigated since the mid 1940s. The now classic studies by Lewin (1991) and Coch and French (1948) both concluded that involvement in the lear ning, planning and implementation stages of a change process signiﬁcantly inﬂuences commitment to change and apparently lowers resistance. This theme has been taken up widely in man- agement literature and for ms the backbone of signiﬁcant management schools of thought, such as organisation development theory and human resource management (Milton et al., 1984, pp. 481-2).

Essentially, the argument behind participa- tive management techniques is that, through a carefully managed process of two way com- munication, infor mation sharing and consul- tation, employees tend to become more com- mitted to the change effort, rather than sim- ply remaining compliant with it (Kotter et al., 1986, p. 355; Makin et al., 1989, p. 165; White and Bednar, 1991, p. 510). Without entering the

debate with regard to the pros and cons of participative management styles, it is appar- ent that such techniques are strongly advo- cated where resistance is expected to be high; the goal being to simply reduce the level of resistance actually encountered. The latent assumption apparently is that the less resis- tance encountered by a change effort, the better. Very rarely is it suggested that resis- tance should be utilised.

It appears, then, that the lear ning of the 1960s and the 1970s has been forgotten. There is a notable absence of change management models and theories that actually incorporate the possibility of utility in resistance. While it is commonly suggested that managers prepare for the change process by estimating the degree of resistance they expect to encounter, rarely is it suggested that the nature of this resistance be diagnosed to see if there is any beneﬁt to be gained from its utili- sation.

The fact that management theory has

apparently not embraced the notion of utility in resistance suggests that an adversarial approach to resistance, reminiscent of that found in classical management theory, is still the prevalent mindset of managers. Resis- tance continues to be viewed as the enemy of change that must be “overcome” and partici- pative techniques are the techniques advo- cated to achieve this end.

Research conducted by Maurer (1996) sup- ports this point. He found that the predomi- nant way implementors of change responded to employees’ reactions was to resist their resistance – that is, meet force with force. Most often this occurred through the force of reason. Infor mation “sharing” often amounted to little more than infor mation “battering” where the recipients of change are confronted with a barrage of slide shows, data analysis and hefty reports. Though these techniques may be categorised as participa- tive in for m, they are far from participative in nature. They amount to little more than an exercise in salesmanship and clearly illus- trate an adversarial management mindset.

Conclusion – rethinking resistance

The intention of this review is not to provide neat answers to the complicated problems associated with resistance. Rather, it is to point out that, although the theoretical understanding of resistance is well advanced, it is apparent that this knowledge has not impacted common perceptions of manage- ment and therefore has not transferred into the development of solid resistance manage- ment techniques.

Dianne Waddell and Amrik S. Sohal Resistance: a constructive tool for change management
