---
source_path: 543.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4c8bd7eeb9bc9e6ee39f74104cc830435723c1eb
title: '543'
---
# Management Decision 36/ 8 [1998] 543–548

been completed and sufficient time has passed (Hultman, 1979, p. 53).

To this end, resistance plays a crucial role

in inﬂuencing the organisation toward greater stability. While pressure from exter- nal and inter nal environments continue to encourage change, resistance is a factor that can balance these demands against the need for constancy and stability. Human systems remaining in a steady state encourage processes and specialisations to stabilise, consolidate, and improve which allows the organisation a level of predictability and control. Thus, the system is able to gain a certain momentum or rhythm that is also critical for organisational survival (Albanese, 1973, pp. 413-17; Hultman, 1979, p. 53). While these maintenance needs are widely recognised, the emphasis in the litera- ture certainly remains on the requirements of change and dynamism. The challenge therefore is to ﬁnd the right balance between change and stability; avoiding the dysfunc- tionality of too much change while ensuring stability does not become stagnation.

As our understanding of resistance has

become increasingly clear, it has also become apparent that people do not resist change per se, rather they resist the uncertainties and potential outcomes that change can cause. Resistance to a change is not the fundamen- tal problem to be solved. Rather, any resis- tance is usually a symptom of more basic problems underlying the particular situa- tion. Resistance can [therefore] serve as a war ning signal directing the timing of tech- nological changes (Judson, 1966, p. 69).

As such, resistance plays a crucial role in drawing attention to aspects of change that may be inappropriate, not well thought through, or perhaps plain wrong. Either way, it is the organisation’s method of communica- tion, therefore attempting to eliminate resis- tance as soon as it arises is akin to shooting the messenger who delivers bad news. Speciﬁcally,[management] can use the nature of the resistance as an indicator of the cause of resistance. It will be most help- ful as a symptom if [management] diagnoses the causes for it when it occurs rather than inhibiting it at once (Bartlett and Kayser, 1972, p. 407).

A further advantage that resistance contributes to the change process is an inﬂux of energy. Psychologists have long understood the danger of apathy or acquiescence when there is a need for growth and development. We are all familiar with the classic adage “you can not help the person who will not ﬁrst help themselves”, rather the individual requires a certain dissatisfaction with their current or future states in order to gain

sufficient motivation to do something about it. In the same way, there is a certain level of motivation or energy required to implement change in an organisation.

Where a workplace is marked by apathy or

passivity, implementing change is a very difficult task (Litterer, 1973, p. 152). With resistance and conﬂict comes the energy or motivation to seriously address the problem at hand. Where energy is lacking, change is often uncreative, sparsely implemented, and inadequately utilised. Where resistance is at play, there is a need to examine more closely the problems that exist and consider more deeply the changes proposed. Once again, though, a balance must be maintained. Where conﬂict becomes too great, it may assume the focus of the energy causing the issues created to recede into the background. Consequently, authors speak of an “optimal level of motiva- tion” (Thomas and Bennis, 1972, p. 383) that will serve the change process and possibly improve its outcome.

In addition to injecting energy into a

change process, resistance also encourages the search for alter native methods and out- comes in order to synthesise the conﬂicting opinions that may exist. Thus resistance becomes a critical source of innovation in a change process as more possibilities are con- sidered and evaluated.

Often a particular solution is known to be favoured by management and consequently does not beneﬁt from a thorough discussion. Under such circumstances, acceptance is built in, and the organisation’s growth and change is limited to the diagnostic and prescriptive capabilities of those who pro- posed the change (Albanese, 1973, p. 418).

This aspect of resistance cannot be under- stated in its importance. Herbert Simon’s (1976) work into the rational decision, for example, drew attention to the fact that many management decisions are non-rational because they simply do not generate a suffi- cient number of alter native solutions to a problem, nor are these alter natives adequately evaluated. Further more, Janis’s (1982) notion of group-think highlights the danger of confor mity in group decision mak- ing and the importance of vigorous debate, thus resistance similarly plays a crucial role. As Maurer points out:

Resistance is what keeps us from attaching ourselves to every boneheaded idea that comes along (Maurer, 1996).

In combination, these aspects of resistance make a persuasive case for re-evaluating the classical understanding of resistance. Equally, they call into question the assump- tion that a change effort that is met with little resistance should be automatically deemed a

[ 545 ]

Dianne Waddell and Amrik S. Sohal Resistance: a constructive tool for change management
