---
source_path: 543.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 152dbc24c1efd824a3b8dcfcd384ea9a9267d9e2
title: '543'
---
# Management Decision 36/ 8 [1998] 543–548

[ 544 ]

clashed with the general interest and well- being of the organisation. Resistance quickly became understood as the enemy of change, the foe which causes a change effort to be drawn out by factional dissent and in-ﬁght- ing. The prescription of this viewpoint was to eliminate resistance, quash it early and sweep it aside in order to make way for the coming change (see Rowe and Boise, 1973, p. 151; cf. Mooney, 1939; Urwick, 1947).

Early human resource theory also cast

resistance in a negative light by perceiving it as a for m of conﬂict that was indicative of a breakdown in the nor mal and healthy inter- actions that can exist between individuals and groups. Once again, the prescription was to avoid resistance in order to restore har- mony to the organisation (Milton et al., 1984, p. 480).

In the years that followed, the conception of

resistance to change beneﬁted greatly from the application of psychological, sociological and anthropological disciplines to study of management. As the understanding of resis- tance became increasingly sophisticated, it became clear that resistance is a far more complex phenomenon than once thought. Rather than being simply driven by the parochial self-interest of individual employ- ees, this research concluded that resistance was a function of a variety of social factors, including: • Rational factors: resistance can occur

where the employees’ own rational assess- ment of the outcomes of the proposed change differ with the outcomes envisaged by management. Such differences of opin- ion cast doubt in the employees’ mind as to the merit or worth of the changes, and thus they may choose to stand in opposition or voice concer n (Ansoff, 1988, p. 211; Grusky and Miller, 1970, p. 63; Kotter et al., 1986, p. 352).

- Non-rational factors:the reaction of an individual worker to a proposed change is also a function of predispositions and pref- erences which are not necessarily based on an economic-rational assessment of the change. These may include instances of resistance workers who simply do not wish to move offices, prefer working near a par- ticular friend, or are uncertain of the out- comes of implementing new technology (Judson, 1966, p. 19; Kaufman, 1971, p. 15; McNurry, 1973, p. 381; Sayles and Straus, 1960, p. 305).

- Political factors:resistance is also inﬂu- enced by political factors such as favouritism or “point scoring” against those initiating the change effort (Blau, 1970, p. 135 (cited in Grusky and Miller, 1970); Ansoff, 1988, p. 212).

- Management factors: inappropriate or poor management styles also contribute to resis- tance (Judson, 1966, p. 32; Lawrence, 1954, p. 53). As organisational theory developed over time, it drew attention to the fact that resis- tance to change is also built into organisa- tional factors. Systems, processes, sunk costs and so on, all contribute to a kind of inertia that inﬂuences an organisation toward greater reliability and predictability which, in tur n, acts against change (Kaufmann, 1971, p. 23; Tichy, 1983, p. 344; White and Bednar, 1991, p. 509; Zaltman and Duncan, 1977, p. 76). As a result of this research, resistance to change became recognised for what it truly is: a complex, multi-faceted phenomenon that is caused by a variety of factors. Further- more, a consensus of opinion began to for m that, contrary to classical theory, resistance (and the conﬂict that it can cause) may not be an enemy of change. Rather, there is a strong case that suggests that resistance should not be approached adversarially because it can play a useful role in an organisational change effort.
