---
source_path: 543.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e1c6afee289b6ba4d6ffbb726f02746c796f258e
title: '543'
---
# Management Decision 36/ 8 [1998] 543–548

The review has found that resistance

remains to this day a complex, multi-faceted phenomenon that continues to affect the outcomes of change, both negatively and positively. Although research has procured a solid understanding of resistance and the beneﬁts that can accrue to an organisation through its proper utilisation, it appears that the classical adversarial approach remains the dominant means of managing resistance because such lear ning is not reﬂected in moder n management techniques.

It would be drawing a long bow to say that the answer to the problem of resistance man- agement is to simply begin to employ tech- niques that hold the possibility of utility in resistance. This is not the conclusion of this review. Rather it is to point out that moder n management has only applied certain aspects of earlier research (for example using partici- pative techniques) while apparently ignoring others. The suggestion is that resistance management may improve signiﬁcantly if the adversarial approach is replaced with one that retains the possibility of beneﬁting through the utilisation of resistance.

As has already been mentioned before,

people do not resist change per se, rather they resist the uncertainties and the potential outcomes that change can cause. Managers must keep this in mind at all times. Resis- tance can play a crucial role in drawing everyone’s attention to aspects of change that may be inappropriate, not well thought through or perhaps plain wrong. In this case managers should be encouraged to search for alter native methods of introducing the change. They must communicate and consult regularly with their employees. This is per- haps one of the most critical success factors in implementing change in an organisation. Employees must be given the opportunity to be involved in all aspects of the change pro- ject and they must be given the opportunity to provide feedback. Teamwork involving man- agement and employees can overcome many of the difficulties experienced by organisa- tions in the past. Managers should facilitate teamwork, they should empower their work- ers to be involved and they should provide the right environment and the necessary resources for employees to take part.

In ter ms of further research in this area,

there are considerable opportunities. Researchers can develop appropriate tech- niques for measuring resistance in different situations. More importantly, research docu- menting how these techniques have been applied and how managers have gained util- ity from resistance would be of considerable beneﬁt to managers. In-depth case studies in this respect would be invaluable.

References Albanese, R. (1973), “Overcoming resistance to stability”, in Bartlett, A. and Kayser, T., Changing Organisational Behaviour, Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.
