data/clean/543__chunk0001.md, before:

# Introduction

Resistance to change has long been recog- nised as a critically important factor that can inﬂuence the success or otherwise of an organisational change effort. Research undertaken by Maurer (1996) indicated that one-half to two-thirds of all major corporate change efforts fail and resistance is the “lit- tle-recognised but critically important con- tributor” to that failure (p. 56). Research undertaken in the UK by Oakland and Sohal (1987) also found that resistance was one of the major impediments to the use of produc- tion management techniques by British pro- duction managers. Similarly, Eisen et al. (1992) and Terziovski et al. (1997) found resis- tance by management and workers to be the major impediment to the use of quality man- agement practices in Australian manufactur- ing industry.

Not that resistance is solely to blame for these statistics, Kotter et al. (1986) comment that there is a tendency amongst managers to approach change with a simple set of beliefs that end up exacerbating the problems that arise because they fail to understand them in any systematic manner. One such “simple belief” is that a change process that occurs with only minimal resistance must have been a good change that was managed well. This assumption is somewhat naïve and belies a common perspective that casts resistance in a negative light. Resistance is often viewed by managers as the enemy of change, the foe which must be overcome if a change effort is to be successful (Schein, 1988, p. 243).

success organisations have in securing suc- cessful change.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/543__chunk0001.md, after:

---
source_path: 543.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d6fac6da2237673b3358b717a8f9910ca2dfe8e8
title: '543'
---
## Resistance: a constructive tool for change management

Dianne Waddell Department of Management, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia Amrik S. Sohal Department of Management, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia

Traditionally, resistance has been cast as adversarial – the enemy of change that must be defeated if change is to be successful. While it is appar- ent that classical manage- ment theory viewed resis- tance in such a manner, recent literature contains much evidence that suggests resistance may indeed be useful and is not to be simply discounted. Present day suggestions and prescriptions for managing resistance have evidently disregarded this research and left little room for utility in resistance. This paper argues that the diffi- culty of organisational change is often exacerbated by the mismanagement of resistance derived from a simple set of assumptions that misunderstand resis- tance’s essential nature. It is suggested that management may greatly beneﬁt from techniques that carefully manage resistance to change by looking for ways of utilis- ing it rather than overcoming it.
