data/clean/agents_companion__chunk0075.md, before:

## observability in the aggregate, a higher level perspective of your agents.

Human feedback is one of the more critical metrics to track as well. A simple 👍👎 or user feedback form, within the context of an agent or task can go a long way to understanding

where your agent does well and where it needs improvement. This feedback can come from

end users of a consumer system, but also employees, QA testers, and process or domain

experts reviewing the agent.

More detailed observability is also very important for agent building, being able to see and

understand what the agent is doing and why it’s doing that. An agent can be instrumented

with “trace” to log all of the inner workings of the agent, not only the critically important

tasks and user interactions. You could conceptually measure every internal step as metrics,

but that is rarely done. Instead these detailed traces are used to debug an agent when

metrics or manual testing show a problem, you can dig into details and see what went wrong.

13

Figure 3: An example of Cloud Observability showing traces for an agent with tools and LLM OpenTelemetry spans.15

So far we’ve been talking about business metrics, goals, tasks, human feedback, and traces

– those are all ways of understanding the actions and impact of your agents, in production.

While developing an agent, in addition to manual testing, automated testing will be much

more efficient in the long run and provide greater insights into the behavior of agents.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/agents_companion__chunk0075.md, after:

---
source_path: agents_companion.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 297ec693a82d4664ac2c165c0ef0691922a74463
title: agents_companion
---
# Agent Success Metrics

Metrics are critical to building, monitoring, and comparing revisions of Agents. Business

metrics, like revenue or user engagement, are probably outside of the scope of the agent

itself but these should be the north star metric for your agents.

Most Agents are designed around accomplishing goals, so goal completion rate is a key

metric to track. Similarly, a goal might be broken down into a few critical tasks or critical

user interactions. Each of these critical tasks and interactions should be independently

instrumented and measured.

So before we get into the details of the Agent itself, we already have several metrics

identified which you should be able to easily track on a dashboard. Each business metric,

goal, or critical interaction, will be aggregated in a familiar fashion: attempts, successes,

rates, etc. Additionally, metrics you should be able to get from any application telemetry

system are very important to track for agents as well, metrics like latency, errors, etc.

12

None of these metrics are specific to Agents, you could track them for any software, but they

are even more important for Agent builders. Deterministic code does only what you tell it to

do, whereas an agent can do a lot more, relying on LLMs which are trained on huge amounts

of data. Instrumentation of these high level metrics is an important part of observability.

You can think of them as Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for the agent, and they allow for
