# LITERATURE REVIEW

Talent Management Talent management is the proactive identification of the important strategies and positions and the deployment of the qualified, skilled and differentiated human resource system to attract, recruit, develop and retain the talented and sharp employees on the basis of their performance behavior (Collings & Mellahi, 2009). Talent management entails differentiation and the strategic positioning of the talented employees in order to lead towards performance development and as well as the organizational differentiation and development (DiRomualdo, 2009; DiRomualdo, 2009). Talent management strategy is the pivotal position needs potential for roles and responsibilities in order to contribute to the organizational strategic issues (Tansley, 2007). The focus is primarily on ensuring compatibility of person with the right job as well as role and responsibilities contributing to firms’ strategic goals (Iles, 2010). The scope of talent recruitment is based on a find blend of internal and external markets and the staffing from a mixed talent pool (Collings & Mellahi, 2009).

Management of the employees is to develop the employees of the organizations enabling them to work better for the organization and make them more competent in their skills and abilities, development of a differentiated human resource team and structure of an organization in order to facilitate and support the management of the talented employees of the organization (Collings & Mellahi, 2009). Researchers found that training and development, performance management, and integrated reward management contribute towards firms’ strategic objectives (Mahapatro, 2010). Retention of talent is key to organizational competitiveness (Tarique, 2010; Schuler, 2011; Vairman, 2012). An innovative approach to talent retention based on multidimensional aspects of work life balance, an effective work diversity policy, open communication providing employees with opportunity for a strong and powerful voice in the organization for their own rights and for the rights of other talented employees; flexible working hours, conducive work climate, and management orientation towards competence, fairness, and mutual respect (Gallardo-Gallardo, 2013; Swailes, 2013; Iles, 2010).

Talent Management Outputs The aim of the talent management strategies is to achieve maximum output from talented employees of the organization and to utilize the talented employees more appropriately.

The investment of talent management strategies helps in achieving some great outcomes such as employee satisfaction, employee engagement, employee motivation, employee commitment and perceived organizational support (Byckingham, 2001). Employees’ motivation is the drive that energizes the employees to excel in physical, cognitive, and behavioral dimensions to achieve and sustain organizational objectives with a sense of purpose and devotion (Cappelli, 2008; Dries, 2013). The talent management strategies provide requisite stimulus to employees to demonstrate their best in tangible and intangible dimensions with a focus on organizational objective (Hajimirarab, 2011; Hartmanna, 2010; Tarique, 2010; Deborah, 2009).

Copyright © Society for Science and Education, United Kingdom

117