# Well-Being

Developing human capital resources can improve organizational effectiveness and the well-being of organizational members. This protects human capital investments and lowers health-care costs related to stress, dissatisfaction, and an unsafe work environment. Training programs or learning initiatives that build efficacy and/or increase perceived control could have a positive impact on employee well-being. Researchers have indirectly addressed growth and well-being by studying the role of stress on learning and by examining learning outcomes such as self-efficacy, learners’ reactions, and satisfaction (LePine et al. 2004, Sitzmann et al. 2008). There has, however, been limited examination of employee growth and well-being from a learning and development per- spective. Thomas & Lankau (2009) found that high-LMX supervisors and nonsupervisory men- torsservedasresourcesthatminimizedemotionalexhaustionthroughincreasedsocialization.That learning in turn decreased role stress and subsequent burnout. Studies using convenience samples have shown that perceptions of opportunities for learning and personal development positively relatedtoaffectivewell-being(Rego&Cunha2009)andpsychologicalworkadjustment,whichin turnwasrelatedtolowerratesofuseofalcoholandtobacco(Wilsonetal.2004).Finally,inanine- year ethnographic study, Michel (2011) documented the negative physiological consequences of organizations that control employees’ hearts, minds, and energy. Negative effects did surface but not immediately. However, once employees attended to what their bodies were telling them, reducing the control of the organization, they were able to rebound and provide the organization with more positive consequences, including increased creativity, ethics, and judgment.

Another way to broaden the focus on well-being is to consider the role of learning on positive psychological capital (or PsyCap). PsyCap is an individual’s positive psychological state of de- velopment characterized by self-efficacy, optimism, hope, and resilience (Luthans et al. 2007). Luthans et al. (2010) have shown that a specific type of training (psychological capital in- tervention) can enhance PsyCap. However, future research needs to investigate if increases in PsyCap also occur as a result of employee involvement in learning activities.