# l

Experiential learning: learning that occurs through engaging in challenging experiences, reflecting on those experiences, and through subjective reasoning extrapolating new knowledge

A number of important questions aboutblended learning needto beinvestigated, including the optimal mix of face-to-face and online instruction, the role of the instructor, and the types of knowledge, skills, or competencies best learned online, face-to-face, or with a blended approach. Researchers have only started to address these questions. Beaudoin (2013) reflects on the role of the instructor in the context of growing blended and online forms of learning, acknowledging that owing to increasing reliance on technology, instructors have in some cases assumed a more ancillary role, serving as a contact for questions and clarifications and less often as a facilitator of knowledge. Although some individuals welcome the self-directed nature of such learning, others find it overwhelming and an impediment to their development. For example, those who have higher self-efficacy and who experience higher loci of control will persist in the face of challenge and may be better equipped to engage in online and self-directed learning than those who do not (Beaudoin 2013, Sitzmann & Ely 2011). These individuals (those with less self-efficacy and loci of control) may find additional value in classroom-based learning where the instructor can provide coaching should the individual get off track.

Informal Learning Research has illustrated that informal learning can occur through employees’ voluntary partic- ipation in formal training activities and through being a team member (Kukenberger et al. 2012, Milia & Birdi 2010). Some studies have investigated how individual differences and the context affect informal learning. Choi & Jacobs (2011) found that personal learning orientation and participation in formal training positively influenced informal learning. Noe et al. (2013) found thatzestwastheonlysignificantpredictorofinformallearningwhenconsideredalongwiththeBig Five traits and generalized self-efficacy. Based in positive psychology, zest is a character strength defined as one’s approaching life with eagerness, energy, and anticipation (Peterson & Seligman 2004). Furthermore, Doornbos et al. (2008), Ellinger (2005), and Kyndt et al. (2009) found that informal learning was influenced by contextual factors including commitment of management to learning, an internal culture committed to learning, work tools and resources, and access to people to form webs of relationships. Informal learning at the team level is influenced by members’ shared beliefs of psychological safety (Edmondson 1999, 2002). Studies focused on outcomes of informal learning have provided initial evidence that it is positively related to contentment, overall job satisfaction, and self-rated measures of job performance (Bear et al. 2008, Rowden & Conine 2005).

Finally, informal learning may be equally important to or even more important than other forms of learning for the development of human capital resources (Birdi et al. 1997, Roy 2010). Van der Heijden et al. (2009) found that employability was highest in the presence of both formal andinformallearning.Theirfindings suggestthatorganizations shouldconsider notonlywhether or not to facilitate formal or informal learning but also how to determine an optimal mix. Also, their results suggest that there may be an interactive effect between forms of formal and informal learning such that informal learning experiences may be leveraged or enhanced by formal training opportunities.