## Employment Branding and Social Responsibility

Onewaythatlearningcancontributetocreatingavaluable,rare,andhard-to-imitateworkforceis through employment branding, which influences the types of employees (skill sets, motivation, personalities) who are attracted to join and stay with the organization. Research to date on em- ployment brands has largely focused on talent acquisition issues (e.g., job seekers’ reactions and attraction based on recruitment practices; Collins 2007). Yet, organizations do have distinct images and reputations related to learning policies and practices as well. For example, General Electric’s reputation and image as an employer are partly based on its $1 billion investment in employee training and education and its management development center in Crotonville, New York (see http://www.ge.com/company/culture/leadership_learning.html). Research needs to investigate how image, reputation, and familiarity with learning practices and policies influence an organi- zation’s ability to attract, motivate, and retain employees who contribute to competitive advantage. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an important part of both the employment and con- sumerbrandimageformanyorganizations.CSRrepresentsanorganization’s actions and policies that impact not just economic performance, but also performance with respect to social and environmentalimpact(Aguinis&Glavas2012).Garavan&McGuire(2010)concludedthatthere is a pressing need to examine the ways in which knowledge and expertise can be developed for the benefit of individuals, groups, organizations, communities, and humanity as a whole. Many organizations, including IBM, United Parcel Service, PwC, and General Mills, seek to enhance their brands through CSR by providing opportunities for employees to work on projects that help underdeveloped, underserved, and impoverished local and global communities and, at the same time, broaden employees’ skill sets (for example, see http://www.community.ups.com/ Community/Community1Internship1Program). Pless et al. (2012) found that a leadership de- velopment program that incorporated international service-learning assignments helped managers to develop the knowledge, skills, and mind-set to support the firm’s global sustainability and CSR efforts. Additional research is needed to better understand the benefits of development programs that have a CSR focus, how to maximize those benefits, and the role that learning can play in motivating employees to initiate or participate in such CSR efforts (Aguinis & Glavas 2012).