# l

Task characteristics. The design of jobs performed individually or in teams can also facilitate learning. Task characteristics such as accountability, autonomy, and the amount of challenge or demands appear to be important for facilitating learning. A lack of accountability has been identified as one of the most frequent barriers to managerial learning (Longenecker 2010). This is likely because when managers are not held accountable for their own growth and do not receive support in their efforts to learn and improve, their development is stifled.

Research on autonomy has shown that it can have both a direct and an indirect influence on learning. Providing more team structure (specialization, hierarchy, and formalization) was posi- tively related to learning, and more organizational-level structure had an adverse influence on learning (Bresman & Zellmer-Bruhn 2013). Psychological safety mediated the positive re- lationship between team structure and learning, and task autonomy constraints mediated the negativerelationshipbetweenorganizationalstructureandlearning.Liu&Fu(2011)showedthat an autonomy-supportive team climate, mentors’ autonomy support, and protégés’ autonomy orientation were all positively related to protégé learning. In addition, an autonomy-supportive team climate augmented the effects of the mentors’ autonomy support and protégés’ autonomy orientation. Fagerlind et al. (2013) found that active jobs, low-strain jobs, high degrees of social capital, and innovative learning climates all increased the likelihood of experiencing work-related flow. For employees in jobs with high decision latitude, regardless of demands, there was an increased likelihood they would benefit from social capital and an innovative learning climate. These results emphasize the importance of autonomy and skill utilization to enable employees to use additional job resources in order to promote engagement and well-being.

A number of studies have investigated how job demands influence learning. Weststar (2009) provided a more nuanced picture of the role of job demands in formal, informal, and nontaught learning. Job demands were positively associated with all three learning activities, social control was associated with both informal and nontaught learning, and technical control was associated with only nontaught learning. Panari et al. (2010) found that the job demands–strain relationship was stronger when learning opportunities and development were low.

Several studies have enhanced our understanding of the conditions needed for challenging assignments, which are often part of employee development efforts, to result in learning and other positive outcomes. Preenen et al. (2011) found that challenging assignments were negatively relatedtoturnoverintentions and jobsearchbehaviors and thatthese relationshipsweremediated by on-the-job learning. Van Ruysseveldt & Van Dijke (2011) found that the positive relationship between workload and workplace learning opportunities occurred only at moderate levels of autonomy,whereasatbothlowandhighlevelsofautonomy,therelationshipwasnegative.DeRue & Wellman (2009) found that the relationship between developmental challenge and leadership skill development exhibited a pattern of diminishing returns, which could be offset by access to feedback. Access to feedback likely offsets the diminishing returns in leadership skill development by enhancing self-awareness, reducing individuals’ uncertainties regarding performance and success, and helping reduce the stress associated with challenging work experiences. A similar pattern of results was observed for individuals high in learning goal orientation.

Job crafting. Job crafting, which emphasizes the active role employees play in the design of their jobs by shaping the physical, emotional, relational, and/or cognitive aspects of their job tasks (Grant & Parker 2009, Wrzesniewski & Dutton 2001), may motivate learning. To meet their needs, individuals may job craft in a variety of ways, but through increasing structural job resources, social resources, and challenging job demands, individuals are likely to learn both informally,throughsocialinteractions,andformally,throughparticipationinformaltrainingand development programs (Daniels et al. 2009, Tims & Bakker 2010).

258 Noe (cid:1) Clarke (cid:1) Klein

6 2

: 5 2 : 4 0

5 2 0 2