## Ask an Expert: How Do I Ask for Time Off in a New Job?

https://hbr.org/2022/04/ask-an-expert-how-do-i-ask-for-time-off-in-a-new-job

3/9

You can say, “I’d planned a trip to visit my grandparents later thissummer. I haven’t met them since 2020 when the pandemic hitand I’m really looking forward to spending time together. I’d needthree vacation days during the second week of June. Since it’s myfirst month here, I want to check in with you. I’m committed toensuring that my work deliverables are on track.”Be sure to end by reiterating your excitement about the role andyour commitment to the company to reassure your boss of yourgood intentions.Plan out your work and delegate tasks.If you have a supportive boss, they will likely understand,especially if you’ve had your vacation on the calendar for a while.Most people understand that these things take time to plan andcan be a big financial commitment.If you have a regular one-on-one meeting with your boss to checkin and talk about deliverables, use this time to understand whatyou can do to cover yourself while you’re out. Are there tasks youneed to delegate? Are there a couple of projects you need toprioritize before you leave? Your boss should be able to help guideyou.If you aren’t meeting with your boss regularly, set up a one-on-one to catch up and bring them up to speed. In this case, it can behelpful to come up with a couple of ideas in advance around howyou plan to execute your tasks while you’re away.Finally, if you’re working with a specific team member closely, itwill be useful (for you both) to set up a meeting before you leave.Share your upcoming plans, leading with: “I wanted to let youknow I’ll be taking a week off next month.”