data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0723.md, before:

## Personality Traits and Psychological States

Another line of research has focused on the differences and in- terrelatedness of traits and states. This research makes little dis- tinction between personality and motivation; both are seen as inﬂuencing the direction, frequency, and intensity of behaviors. In addition, personality and motivation can be considered at the traits and state levels that inﬂuence behaviors through proximal and dis- tal mechanisms (Kanfer, 1992). Individuals can have multiple traits that interact within particular settings to create various individual differences in states that have complex effects on thought, emo- tions, and actions (see Snow, 1990).

One example of this approach has been the work of Kanfer and her colleagues (Kanfer, 1990; Kanfer, Ackerman, & Heggestad, 1996; Kanfer & Heggestad, 1997) on a person-centered framework for the study of work motivation, achievement, and performance. The person-centered approach is based on the principle of the continuous and reciprocal inﬂuence of person characteristics and situational factors. These investigators note that to take such an in- teractionist perspective requires a clear conceptualization of the relevant person characteristics that affect work motivation pro- cesses. They identiﬁed two key motivationally relevant traits of achievement and anxiety. To understand the motivational pro- cesses, they employ a self-regulatory perspective to understanding the interrelationships of individual differences in motivational

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0723.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 126445e9ea7d4eaf4c2c1baf628b5a82c3a8a6dc
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 242 PERSONALITY AND WORK

Taken together, Figures 9.1 and 9.2 illustrate a generalizabil- ity theory approach toward partitioning measured behaviors into different sources of variance; the graphs would be more of an exploratory supplement to generalizability theory statistics. Even a conceptual understanding that situations may vary in their personality-relevant characteristics—even when those character- istics cannot be empirically measured—implies that data should be collected on individuals across different learning situations if it is important for “the situation” to be understood as a potentially important source of variance with potential main effects and in- teractive effects on learning outcomes. Furthermore, this would be an empirical policy-capturing approach to creating classes of situ- ations with similar features.
