---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 60a3548fd8b04af98b4414707619470947927a46
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 76 PERSONALITY AND WORK

work hardest in environments that afford competition, whereas agreeable individuals will work hardest in cooperative environ- ments. However, Sheldon and Elliot also suggest that the attainment of self-concordant goals is key to individual well-being. Our model looks only at performance. Yet the self-concordance model sug- gests that agreeable individuals will derive satisfaction from work- ing in cooperative environments, and extraverts will be happiest in competitive environments. Future models and research can likely beneﬁt from directly examining the effects of personality not only on performance but also on employee satisfaction. More im- portant, the model should be extended to other work behaviors, including withdrawal and counterproductive behavior.

The self-concordance model also suggests that competence, autonomy, and relatedness are primary mechanisms that ensure people will persist in goal-directed behavior. Our model is similar in its assertion that greater autonomy allows agreeable and ex- traverted people to pursue goals consistent with their trait prefer- ences. The model is consistent with notions of relatedness in that it suggests that agreeable people prefer relating to others cooper- atively, whereas extraverts prefer relating competitively. The model does not, however, speciﬁcally include a focus on competence. We believe that competence is likely to have important relationships with Conscientiousness, Emotional Stability, and Accomplishment Striving. For example, the relationship between Conscientiousness and Accomplishment Striving may be stronger if the person has high competence on the task, particularly if there is considerable autonomy in the job. We encourage future researchers to explore the nature of these relationships.

The model we present here highlights ways that situational characteristics affect the relationship between personality traits and job success. Our model emphasizes interpersonal contextual di- mensions (competitive and cooperative demands) as critical situ- ational variables that affect these relationships. Researchers should explore the role of other situational variables. For example, the emotional demands or emotional labor of the work context may be an important situational factor to consider. At an extreme, emo- tionally taxing work can result in burnout, which has been consis- tently linked with organizational consequences such as increased turnover, stronger intentions to leave, negative work attitudes, and
