---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: dd13f6aa8eacdb4df2401cfc313b8aee2e0a0351
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 252 PERSONALITY AND WORK

complex picture of the learner than the somewhat static view of a mastery goal orientation as being “better” than a performance goal orientation in terms of motivation, strategy use, and performance outcomes. For example, in some situations, performance goals may be adaptive—or at least not maladaptive. There may be learning objectives that are not intrinsically motivating to most individuals, even to those who tend to be mastery oriented in other situations, where individuals with a high performance goal orientation may strive to perform well. Or in some dynamic situations, staying with a mastery goal rather than moving to more of a performance goal over time may not be beneﬁcial to continued improvement. From a multiple pathways perspective, performance-oriented learners may feel less interest and have more anxiety and more trouble dealing with failure, employ different strategies to deal with fail- ure than a mastery-oriented person would, and yet still reach the same level of outcomes. This calls for going beyond between-subjects designs to consider examining multiple goals for individuals and their interactions across different settings or situations.

Recent studies have found support for taking a multiple goal perspective. For example, Pintrich (2000) examined goal orienta- tion and changes in motivation, affect, strategy use, and perfor- mance across three waves of data collected from 150 eighth and ninth graders in math classes. In general, he found that the process measures such as self-efﬁcacy, task value, and positive affect de- clined over time. More central to a perspective of multiple goals, he found that performance approach goals, when coupled with mastery goals, were just as adaptive as mastery goals alone. He also found that the two types of goal orientation had differential rela- tionships over time to psychological processes such as positive af- fect, the use of self-handicapping strategies, and perceived task value.

Riveiro, Cabanach, and Arias (2001) conducted a study of 595 college students. They examined relationships between goal orien- tation and the use of various types of cognitive, self-regulatory, and motivational strategies. They found that from a multiple-goals per- spective, students who developed the most positive self-regulatory strategies were those who not only were concerned about mastery but also had a desire to avoid being judged negatively by others. This outcome highlights the importance of engaging learners in
