---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: cf3522ac81b078b3b43b1b4f8546c7aabebda529
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 208 PERSONALITY AND WORK

Low self-monitors are more likely to adopt a principled interper- sonal orientation in which there is a high correspondence between their attitudes, beliefs, and values (that is, their genuine selves) and their social behavior.

Previous research has shown that self-monitoring has good discriminant validity with other personality constructs. As Sny- der (1987) noted, “The list of other measures with which self- monitoring is not meaningfully correlated is a long one” (p. 27). This list includes constructs such as locus of control, ﬁeld depen- dence, self-esteem, social desirability, neuroticism, trait anxiety, and intelligence. A recent meta-analysis of the relationships be- tween self-monitoring and the Big Five personality factors also in- dicates generally good discriminant validity (Schleicher & Day, 2002). The sample weighted correlations between self-monitoring and Agreeableness (r = .04), Conscientiousness (r = −.02), and Neu- roticism (r = −.01) all indicate construct independence (there were insufﬁcient study numbers to examine Openness to Experience). As would be expected, however, there was a moderately large over- all correlation with Extraversion (r = .37). This is expected because Extraversion is one of the subscales of the Self-Monitoring Scale (the others being acting and other-directedness). Nonetheless, self- monitoring has been shown to be a conceptually distinct and meaningful construct apart from its subscales (Gangestad & Sny- der, 2000).

Another interesting aspect of the historical development of the self-monitoring construct is that the scientiﬁc study of self- monitoring personality and social behavior has progressed through a sequence of increasingly more complex research strategies (Sny- der & Ickes, 1985). The early-adopted dispositional strategy as- sumed that consistencies in social behavior could be understood in terms of relatively enduring dispositional characteristics associ- ated with self-monitoring. In general, this approach worked to identify categories of people who demonstrated those dispositional and behavioral characteristics of interest and provided a psycho- metrically sound measure of those categories (the Self-Monitoring Scale). The interactional strategy that followed assumed that the noted variation in social behavior was due to the interaction of dis- positional and situational factors. Empirically, this general strategy sought to identify moderator variables that illuminated those con-
