# 158 PERSONALITY AND WORK

only (Depue & Collins, 1999), while another group contends that dopamine production inﬂuences behaviors more closely aligned with aggressive or impulsive-sensation-seeking behaviors (Gray, 1991; Cloninger, Svrakic, & Przybeck, 1993; Zuckerman, Kuhlman, Thornquist, & Kiers, 1991).

The fact that so much of the research linking biology to per- sonality has centered on the trait of Impulsivity makes it especially important, for the purposes of this chapter, to understand the bi- ological theory of personality. Apart from its links to counterpro- ductive behaviors through its relationship to the higher-order factors of Conscientiousness and Agreeableness, Impulsivity is pre- dictive of many counterproductive behaviors in its own right. For instance, Impulsivity has been found to be a moderately good pre- dictor of alcohol, marijuana, cigarette, and psychedelic drug use (Watson & Clark, 1993), juvenile delinquency (Robins, John, Caspi, Mofﬁtt, & Stouthamer-Loeber, 1996), verbal slurs, and co- ercive actions (Baumeister, Heatherton, & Tice, 1994; Hynan & Grush, 1986).

The fact that dopamine or other neurotransmitters inﬂuence the occurrence of a certain set of behaviors does not normally mean that our behavior is determined solely by those neurotransmitters. Whether we succumb to the inﬂuence of any biological state may simply depend on whether we choose to be guided by their inﬂu- ence. For instance, although various biological systems may tell us we are hungry and increase the odds of our eating, in most cases we are able to resist these impulses by making a conscious decision not to eat. In similar fashion, although high dopamine levels may be associated with a tendency to engage in impulsive behaviors at work, such as substance abuse, in most cases we are able to resist these impulses by making a conscious decision not to use these substances.

Although we are usually able to resist the inﬂuence of biolog- ical states through choice behavior, this may not always be the case. For instance, if neurotransmitter levels are extreme enough, they may induce personality disorders or psychopathological states. The neurotransmitter serotonin provides a case in point. Extremely low levels of serotonin are known to produce very aggressive behavior and are often associated with psychopathy, murder, and suicide (Zuckerman, 1995). Such cases call into question whether an in-