---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 699fd076952f66c6ca3287044ad490bbb279ff76
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## THE MULTILEVEL ROLE OF PERSONALITY IN TEAMS 187

nization may thus either increase or decrease individual-level re- lationships between personality and behavior, depending on the extent to which autonomy ﬁlters to the individual level of analysis. Group-level features of teams such as autonomy, cohesion, hierar- chical control, norms, and conﬂict may thus moderate relation- ships between traits and behavior. Future research that looks at how these group-level characteristics moderate individual-level per- sonality relationships should be fruitful.

An alternative perspective also suggests that situational strength may have a unique effect in team settings. Maslach, Santee, and Wade (1987) manipulated the perception of peer opinion in small groups. Participants in their study were assessed to determine how the relationship between their traits and behavior was affected by consistency of peer opinions. In one scenario, a strong situation was created by participants’ being led to believe that their peers were in agreement about a topic. In the other scenario, a weak sit- uation was created by participants’ being led to believe that their peers held a split opinion. The linkage between the participants’ traits and behavior was strongest when the peer opinion was unan- imous. This ﬁnding led Maslach et al. (1987, p. 102) to conclude that “strong situations may make self-presentational concerns very salient, particularly when the situation that is strong is social and interpersonal in nature (such as social norms or the demands made by other people). Under such circumstances, a person’s traits and self-concept may be more directly involved in the attempt to behave in more self-expressive or self-enhancing ways; conse- quently, the link between personality and behavior should be strong, not weak.”

The ﬁndings of Maslach et al. (1987) suggest that teams may create the very type of social setting where a strong situation cre- ated by peers actually results in closer linkage between traits and behavior. A person’s desire to retain and enhance his or her self- concept and individual identity may result in that individual’s be- having consistently with his or her traits because of the strong peer pressure to do otherwise. Given that the effect operates in social and interpersonal settings, it is most likely to occur in teams, thereby creating a strong situation whereby traits have a stronger link to behavior. Future research should thus look at how consis- tency among the traits and behaviors of teammates creates a strong
