data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0211.md, before:

# THE HAPPY WORKER 59

Stone, A. A., Neale, J. M., Cox, D. S., Napoli, A., Valdimarsdottir, H., & Kennedy-Moore, E. (1994). Daily events are associated with a se- cretory immune response to an oral antigen in men. Health Psy- chology, 13, 440–446.

Tellegen, A. (1985). Structures of mood and personality and their rele- vance to assessing anxiety, with an emphasis on self-report. In A. H. Tuma & J. D. Maser (Eds.), Anxiety and the anxiety disorders (pp. 681–706). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.

Vroom, H. H. (1964). Work and motivation. New York: Wiley. Watson, D., Clark, L. A., McIntyre, C. W., & Hamaker, S. (1992). Affect, personality, and social activity. Journal of Personality and Social Psy- chology, 63, 1011–1025.

Watson, D., Clark, L. A., & Tellegen, A. (1988). Development and valida- tion of brief measures of positive and negative affect: The PANAS scales. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 54, 1063–1070. Wright, J., & Mischel, W. (1982). Inﬂuence of affect on cognitive social learning person variables. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 43, 901–914.

Wright, R. (2000). Nonzero: The logic of human destiny. New York: Pantheon. Wright, T. A., & Staw, B. M. (1999). Affect and favorable work outcomes: Two longitudinal tests of the happy-productive worker thesis. Jour- nal of Organizational Behavior, 20, 1–23.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0211.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 60599ed4a0f5c2101d256a1de9b0418a46a3a298
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# and Social Psychology, 39, 1161–1178.

Saavedra, R., & Earley, P. C. (1991). Choice of task and goal under con- ditions of general and speciﬁc affective inducement. Motivation and Emotion, 15, 45–65.

Sadri, G., & Robertson, I. T. (1993). Self-efﬁcacy and work-related be- havior: A review and meta-analysis. Applied Psychology: An Interna- tional Review, 42, 139–152.

Salovey, P., Rothman, A. J., Detweiler, J. B., & Steward, W. T. (2000). Emo- tional states and physical health. American Psychologist, 55, 110–121. Sapolsky, R. M. (1999). The physiology and pathophysiology of unhap- piness. In D. Kahneman, E. Diener, & N. Schwarz (Eds.), Well-being: The foundations of hedonic psychology (pp. 453–469). New York: Rus- sell Sage Foundation.

Sarason, I. G., Potter, E. H., & Sarason, B. R. (1986). Recording and re- call of personal events: Effects on cognitions and behavior. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 51, 347–356.

Scheier, M. F., Carver, C. S., & Bridges, M. W. (2001). Optimism, pes- simism, and psychological well-being. In E. C. Chang (Ed.), Opti- mism and pessimism: Implications for theory, research, and practice (pp. 189–216). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Sinclair, R. C., & Mark, M. M. (1995). The effects of mood state on judg- mental accuracy: Processing strategy as a mechanism. Cognition and Emotion, 9, 417–438.

Spector, P. E., Dwyer, D. J., & Jex, S. M. (1988). Relation of job stressors to affective, health, and performance outcomes: A comparison of multiple data sources. Journal of Applied Psychology, 73, 11–19. Staw, B. M., & Barsade, S. G. (1993). Affect and managerial performance: A test of the sadder-but-wiser vs. happier-and-smarter hypotheses. Administrative Science Quarterly, 38, 304–331.

Stewart, G. L. (1996). Reward structure as a moderator of the relation- ship between extraversion and sales performance. Journal of Applied Psychology, 81, 619–627.

Stone, A. A., Cox, D. S., Valdimarsdottir, H., Jandorf, L., & Neale, J. M. (1987). Evidence that secretory IgA antibody is associated with daily mood. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 52, 988–993.
