---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1924536d092db580adcc4216d3f89572c0c6ca4f
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## SELF-MONITORING PERSONALITY AND WORK RELATIONSHIPS 215

and prevent access to new opportunities (Brass, 2001). As a result, strong ties might impede ﬂexible and adaptive responses when an environment changes quickly. Recent research has shown, how- ever, that in a community of Korean immigrant entrepreneurs, high self-monitoring business owners (compared to their low self- monitoring colleagues) were more likely to span across structural holes within the community and were faster to reach outside the community to build bonds with important role players (such as bankers) in the host community (Oh et al., 2002). Strong bonds of family and ethnicity were therefore less likely to constrain high self-monitors (relative to low self-monitors) from pursuing network connections.

Weak ties were not considered to be of much importance until Granovetter’s classic work (1973) on the “strength of weak ties.” His original research question examined how people ﬁnd jobs, with the expectation that strong ties were likely to provide instrumental con- tacts that led to identifying viable job opportunities (Granovetter, 1974). In other words, close friends and family members would be most inﬂuential in providing successful job leads. Surprisingly, Grano- vetter found instead that it was the friends of friends (or friends of acquaintances) who tended to provide the most helpful job infor- mation. The most important people in providing information were not immediate friends and family but rather people in different oc- cupations from the contact who had passed along information ob- tained through others who might not have been immediate friends with the source. Speciﬁcally, the short (fewer than two intermedi- aries), weak links provided the most useful job information.

One reason for the strength of weak ties resides in the quality of information that is transferred. People who are closest to us and con- stitute strong ties have many overlapping contacts and thus share much of the same information. Information received from a strong tie is likely to be stale in that it was already received from someone else (Scott, 2000). Fresh, or nonredundant, information is there- fore most likely to come from distant parts of the network. Weak ties are advantageous in terms of bridging otherwise unconnected groups and providing new information and entrepreneurial op- portunities. A disadvantage is that there is a relatively weak moti- vation to maintain the tie or provide other kinds of resources such as loyalty or emotional support.
