# THE HAPPY WORKER 37

more (see, for example, Gouaux, 1971; Lyubomirsky & Tucker, 1998; Mayer, Mamberg, & Volanth, 1988), resulting in happy indi- viduals’ seeking out social contact and being more sensitive and at- tentive to those with whom they interact (Cunningham, 1988a; Isen, 1970). Second, people like happy people better than they like unhappy people (Diener & Fujita, 1995; Harker & Keltner, 2001; King & Napa, 1998), making it more likely that happy people will experience positive social relationships. Finally, the signs of hap- piness, laughter and smiling, indicate that one is friendly and open, and this signal invites others to become engaged.

In addition to this general tendency for happy people to be more socially engaged than unhappy people, a number of more speciﬁc effects of happiness lead to positive social interactions, and these effects have particularly important implications for happi- ness at work. For example, happy people appear to be more help- ful and altruistic than unhappy people. This effect has been found in studies of dispositional affect as well as experimentally induced affect, and it has been found using a variety of techniques for ma- nipulating mood and a variety of measures of helpfulness and al- truism (see Diener et al., 2001, for a review). Carlson, Charlin, and Miller (1988) conducted a meta-analysis of studies examining the relation between positive mood and helping behavior and found evidence supporting four potential mechanisms underlying the re- lation. First, they suggested that a person who feels happy also feels efﬁcacious and resource laden, and therefore is likely to share those resources with others. Second, they found evidence that helping behavior helps to prolong positive moods. Third, there was evidence that helping behavior is a by-product of other effects of pleasant moods, such as increased liking for others. And ﬁnally, they suggested that pleasant moods may cause people to feel a greater sense of interdependence and cooperation with others.

The suggestion of Carlson et al. (1988) that helping behaviors result from increased feelings of cooperation indicates that coop- eration itself may be an additional beneﬁt of pleasant affect. Carnevale and Isen (1986), for example, showed that people are more cooperative after experiencing a pleasant mood induction. Hertel, Neuhof, Theuer, and Kerr (2000) questioned the general- izability of this ﬁnding, however, and suggested that Carnevale and Isen’s interpretation of participants’ behavior as cooperative was