# UNDERSTANDING THE DYNAMIC LEARNER 241

This type of personality research highlights a process approach that links traits with behaviors that express the trait. The behav- ioral manifestations may reﬂect a temporary state that the person is in relevant to the typical modal trait like behavior one would ex- pect. Consequently, while there is stability in personality, behaviors can be thought of as trait-relevant states that are short term, con- tinuous, and concrete ways of acting, feeling, and thinking at a par- ticular time and place. The goal in a learning context, then, is to maintain states within individuals that lead to expressing learning- relevant behavior. In transferring the training knowledge to the workplace, maintaining these states outside the learning situation may be just as important as providing the opportunities and in- centives to express the behaviors learned.

As applied to learning, Figure 9.2 illustrates variability with each of the three graphs showing how particular learners tend to vary in the frequency of a particular learning behavior across sit- uations that vary in their personality-related content. Here we have three learners (L1, L2, and L3), and in this case the abscissa represents a continuum of a particular situational characteristic s within a learning situation or parts thereof (amount of structure, amount of priming for an internal or external locus of control). Each learner shows different frequencies of a particular type of learning behavior, where situations with the highest frequen- cies of behavior have the most situational press for that particular individual.