---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6bc4cbc3cb35943898405c0d8d2bc617fb0d5f76
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 152 PERSONALITY AND WORK

each form of CWB as discrete, resulting in separate literatures on behavior categories such as theft, drug and alcohol use, absen- teeism, and unsafe behaviors. Sackett and DeVore (2001) reviewed literature on the interrelationships among CWBs. Self-report, other-report, and direct judgments of likelihood of co-occurrence support the notion of positive interrelationships among CWBs. Self-report data indicated positive correlations in the range of .30 between individual counterproductive behaviors but higher cor- relations of about .50 between composites of related behaviors, a ﬁnding replicated with data using supervisor ratings. It also appears reasonable to think in terms of an overall CWB construct, as grand composites across broad ranges of CWBs exhibit internal consis- tency reliabilities in the .80s and .90s. Sackett and DeVore suggest a hierarchical model, with a general CWB factor at the top; a se- ries of group factors, such as the organizational deviance and in- terpersonal deviance factors identiﬁed by Bennett and Robinson (2000), below this general factor; and speciﬁc behavior domains, such as theft, absence, safety, and drug and alcohol use below these group factors. Researchers and practitioners may focus at differ- ent levels of this hierarchy for different applications. In many per- sonnel selection settings, organizations are interested in identifying prospective employees who will not engage in the broad range of CWBs, and thus may focus on the broad CWB construct. In con- trast, an intervention may be sought that will deal effectively with a single speciﬁc problem behavior (for example, widespread vio- lation of safety procedures).

Another important issue is the relationship between CWBs and the domains of organizational citizenship behaviors (OCBs) and contextual performance. One perspective, articulated by Ben- nett and Stamper (2001), views these as positive (OCB) and neg- ative (CWB) discretionary behavior and hypothesizes that they reﬂect opposite ends of an overall continuum of discretionary be- havior. Empirical evidence does suggest that these two domains are related, though methodology appears to have a strong inﬂu- ence on study ﬁndings. Sackett and DeVore (2001) report a cor- relation of about −.60 between supervisor ratings of the two domains, based on the results of a meta-analysis and two large- scale individual studies. In contrast, much smaller correlations are found with self-reports of behavior in the two domains. Laczo
