# RESEARCH THEMES FOR THE FUTURE 329

become overly reliant on the Big Five model when framing re- search questions. Ultimately, the appropriate personality structure or set of traits to examine depends on the intended purpose of the researcher. For example, in some situations, a one- or two-factor model of personality may be appropriate. Saucier and Goldberg note that one-factor solutions consistently yield an unrotated fac- tor labeled Evaluation, with desirable traits at one end and unde- sirable traits at the other. If this factor reﬂects a general evaluative (desirable versus undesirable) component, it may be useful to ex- amine how scores on this scale predict general overall perfor- mance compared to speciﬁc performance. Scullen, Mount, and Goff (2000) have shown that performance ratings capture both a general and a speciﬁc performance component associated with the particular attribute being rated. The evaluative personality factor may be a better predictor of the general performance component than of the speciﬁc performance components.

Similarly, two-factor solutions constantly yield personality traits related to positively valued dynamic qualities associated with indi- vidual ascendancy and socialization. These two factors have been alternatively labeled Agency and Communion (Bakan, 1966), Get- ting Ahead and Getting Along (Hogan, 1983), and Factors Beta and Alpha (Digman, 1997). Digman (1997) showed that Factor Alpha consists of the Five-Factor Model (FFM) factors of Conscientious- ness, Emotional Stability, and Agreeableness, whereas Factor Beta consisted of the FFM factors of Extraversion and Openness to Ex- perience. It may well be that the second higher-order construct, Factor Alpha, depicts a “functional personality” at work (Mount & Barrick, 1995), and emerging evidence suggests that this may be a valid predictor of overall performance across numerous occupa- tional groups. For example, a second-order meta-analysis by Bar- rick, Mount, and Judge (2001) revealed that at least two of the components of Factor Alpha, Conscientiousness and Emotional Stability, predict performance across jobs. Further evidence is pro- vided by research on employee reliability, which found that in- tegrity test validities were generalizable ((cid:1) = .41) and that these measures consisted of Conscientiousness, Emotional Stability, and Agreeableness (Ones, Viswesvaran, & Schmidt, 1993). In addition, Customer Service Orientation has been found to consist of these same three personality traits, and this composite measure again