# 102 PERSONALITY AND WORK

habits should be included in addition to motivation. Although Motowidlo et al. included choices for how much effort to exert and for how long as examples of characteristic motivational responses under work habits, this appears to exclude motivational choices that go against one’s habitual tendencies. For example, a person’s characteristic tendency may be to exert as little effort as possible, but he or she may choose to go against that tendency in response to a new bonus structure that rewards productivity.

Habits inﬂuence behavior despite intentions to behave other- wise because they require very little attention. To implement an in- tention that goes against habitual tendencies and other intentions competing for one’s attention, one must engage self-regulatory or volitional mechanisms. Self-regulation refers to the higher-level cognitive processes that guide the allocation of attention, time, and effort across activities directed toward attaining a goal (Kanfer, 1990) and protect an intention from being replaced by a compet- ing action tendency before the intended action is completed (Kuhl, 1985). This is a critical component of motivation that is missing from the models of Campbell et al. (1993) and Motowidlo et al. (1997).

Some theories integrate cognitive choice and self-regulatory aspects of motivation (Heckhausen & Kuhl, 1985). The importance of this integrative perspective for the purposes of this chapter is that different dispositional variables are proposed to inﬂuence mo- tivation at different stages, providing a framework for more sys- tematic investigation of how personality affects motivation and job performance (Kanfer, 1990). Mitchell and Daniels (2002) distin- guished between proactive and on-line cognitive processes. Proac- tive cognitive processes occur before a task is begun and reﬂect cognitions about expectations for achieving a goal or the value of outcomes resulting from achieving a goal. During this phase, peo- ple determine what course of action to take, resulting in the for- mation of an intention. Mitchell and Daniels include expectancy, self-efﬁcacy, and goal setting in the proactive category of motiva- tion theories. On-line cognitive processes occur while the person is working on a task and are characterized by self-regulatory pro- cesses that are necessary to maintain goal-directed action. This phase refers to the process of implementing an intention to achieve a goal. Control theory, action theory, and self-regulation are on-line theories of motivation (Mitchell & Daniels, 2002).