## PERSONALITY AND COUNTERPRODUCTIVE WORKPLACE BEHAVIOR 163

hold the important self-belief that they lack ambition. Assume they also hold the belief that production deviance will have negative consequences for them. These two beliefs are not consonant with each other. The unambitious individual knows that his lack of am- bition is likely to lead to a lack of effort at work—and thus, possi- bly, production deviance—but also believes that this lack of effort will be bad for him. Accordingly, holding these joint beliefs should create a state of psychological discomfort. Dissonance theory pre- dicts that this individual should be motivated to reduce the dis- comfort by changing his behavior or modifying one of these beliefs. One possible dissonance-reducing strategy is to change his behavior at work by exerting more effort. In this case, production deviance will not occur, and dissonance will be eliminated. How- ever, individuals really lacking in ambition may ﬁnd it difﬁcult to exert the necessary effort to avoid engaging in production de- viance. For this reason, this individual may choose to reduce dis- sonance by changing his belief about the desirability of the consequences of production deviance. For example, he may de- cide that the consequences of lack of ambition, and speciﬁcally production deviance, are not so undesirable after all.

If this manner of thinking rings true for the individual low on achievement striving, then the attitude toward production deviance should be enhanced for this individual. Holding the subjective norm component constant, this enhanced attitude toward pro- duction deviance should increase the likelihood that an individual low in achievement striving will engage in production deviance.

Beliefs About the Existence of Norms About CWBs Beliefs about norms may be speciﬁc to the current work situation or more general. According to the theory of reasoned action, a given CWB will be more likely to be performed, all else equal, if a person believes that the behavior is widespread. This in and of it- self is straightforward; the question of interest is individual differ- ences in such beliefs. Departures from a “correct” perception of, say, the proportion of employees who steal may occur as a result of multiple mechanisms, including selective observation and selective recall.

It is worth noting that normative beliefs about CWBs, and about counterproductive behaviors outside the workplace, are a