# PERSONALITY AND JOB PERFORMANCE 93

and adaptive performance. At the next level, task performance is deﬁned by ﬁve components from Campbell et al. (1993) and the aspects of conscientious initiative that are relevant to task perfor- mance. Supervision/leadership was renamed supervision because “leadership” is a less speciﬁc construct that is often an aggregate of task, citizenship, and adaptive performance (Leslie & Van Vel- sor, 1996). At the most speciﬁc level, each Level 2 dimension is de- ﬁned by labels or descriptions from Pulakos et al. (2000), Borman and Brush (1993), and Campbell et al. (1993). Some dimensions are classiﬁed under more than one higher-order dimension. For example, physical adaptability could be job speciﬁc (as for a Na- tional Football League player) or non-job-speciﬁc (many jobs in the army). Job-speciﬁc task proﬁciency and non-job-speciﬁc task proﬁciency are very broad because of the multitude of task cate- gories included under these umbrellas. Campbell et al. deﬁne job- speciﬁc task proﬁciency as the behaviors that distinguish the substantive content of one job from another (for example, de- signing architecture, driving a bus, directing air trafﬁc). Non-job- speciﬁc tasks are those that are required across many jobs within an organization (for example, teach classes, use computers).

Citizenship performance includes Borman, Buck et al.’s (2001) three components, which are deﬁned by additional descriptors from Borman, Buck et al., and dimensions from Campbell et al. (1993), Pulakos et al. (2000), and Borman and Brush (1993). Note that supervision is included as both a Level 2 dimension under task performance and a Level 3 dimension under personal support. This is because supervision is explicitly included in the deﬁnition of task performance as an element that services and maintains the techni- cal core (Motowidlo et al., 1997), but some elements of supervision are clearly part of the deﬁnition of personal support (coaching, de- veloping, and motivating others; Borman, Buck et al., 2001). “Demonstrate effort” is also included under both task and citizen- ship performance. “Handling work stress” is included under all higher-order dimensions of citizenship performance because it con- tains aspects from all three. Adaptive performance includes only the single Level 2 dimension of “Dealing with uncertain and un- predictable work situations,” which is deﬁned at Level 3 by Hesketh and Neal’s (1999) “Demonstrating ﬂexibility to cope with change” and further descriptors from Pulakos et al. (2000).