---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a0ea4ae60f94ebd4ffcf511bc8577bed6dfc546b
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 32 PERSONALITY AND WORK

(Clark & Watson, 1988). Therefore, it is necessary to measure and study positive and negative affect separately.

It is also important to note that the nature of affective con- structs changes depending on the time frame in which they are measured. Researchers often distinguish between emotions, which are short-lived reactions to distinct events (Frijda, 1999), and moods, which are longer-lasting feelings that are not necessarily tied to a speciﬁc stimulus (Morris, 1999). In addition, research has shown stable individual differences in the tendency to experience positive and negative emotions and moods, and these affective dispositions are often captured when affect is measured over very long periods of time (Tellegen, 1985). We use the terms emotions, moods, and affective dispositions to refer to short-term reactions, long- lasting noncontingent feelings, and stable dispositions, respectively. We also recommend that organizational researchers explicitly state which component of affective experience they are trying to cap- ture because the different components may have different impli- cations for organizational outcomes (Ledford, 1999; Wright & Staw, 1999).

The third and fourth components of subjective well-being that are relevant to the happy-worker hypothesis reﬂect cognitive judg- ments of satisfaction with one’s life and one’s job. Cognitive judgments of life satisfaction reﬂect conscious evaluations of the conditions of one’s life and are separable from (though related to) the amount of positive and negative affect that one experiences on a day-to-day basis (Lucas et al., 1996). Similarly, judgments of job satisfaction reﬂect conscious attitudes toward one’s job (Judge et al., 2001). Although job satisfaction measures are inﬂuenced by the conditions that exist in one’s job, they are also inﬂuenced by one’s affective disposition and overall life satisfaction (Judge, Locke, & Durham, 1997). Therefore, researchers must be careful not to interpret job satisfaction measures as a proxy measure for the actual conditions of one’s job. However, the moderate corre- lation between life satisfaction and job satisfaction does not pre- clude job satisfaction measures from providing unique information about an employee’s attitudes toward his or her job, attitudes that may have distinct implications for productivity beyond the effects of life satisfaction or affective well-being.
