# 166 PERSONALITY AND WORK

individuals high on the E/PE dimension generally feel joyful, in- terested, attentive, excited, and enthusiastic.

Research is now considering the extent to which E/PE and N/NE, and the emotions and moods they engender, relate to work- place behaviors. Although few studies have speciﬁcally studied the relationship between PE and CWBs, some have demonstrated that high PE is positively related to positive moods at work and that such positive moods are related to a variety of helping behaviors classi- ﬁed as organizational citizenship behaviors (George, 1991). From a theoretical perspective, positive moods are theorized to be linked to helping behaviors because these moods facilitate perceiving peo- ple in a positive light and induce people to be attracted to others (George & Brief, 1992).

Just as there are good reasons for hypothesizing that individu- als high on E/PE will engage in helping behaviors, there are good reasons for hypothesizing that individuals low on E/PE may en- gage in a variety of CWBs. Individuals who are low in E/PE often experience moods such as sluggishness and drowsiness (Watson & Tellegen, 1985). It seems reasonable to hypothesize that those who are often sluggish and drowsy will lack the energy and enthusiasm required to make the effort to show up for work on time and tackle jobs with the energy required to do them well. They may therefore be likely to engage in CWBs such as absenteeism, production de- viance, and misallocation of time-related resources. In line with this hypothesis, George (1989) found that positive moods at work were signiﬁcantly negatively correlated with absence.

There are also good reasons for hypothesizing that individu- als high on N/NE will engage in an assortment of CWBs. Individ- uals high on this dimension are prone to experience feelings of sadness, anger, and contempt. One might reasonably expect these feelings to be linked to both aggressive and passive counterpro- ductive behaviors. To date, however, very little research has ex- plored the linkages among negative affect, mood at work, and the behavioral consequences of these feelings. Some studies have in- vestigated the relationship between negative affect and withdrawal behaviors, but results are somewhat inconsistent. For instance, Cro- panzano, James, and Konovsky (1993) found that negative affect was associated with turnover intentions, but George (1989) did not. In light of the strong theoretical reasons for believing that negative