# Structural Holes

It has been argued that there has been “no more important advance in the social network literature within the past decade” than Burt’s (1992) structural hole theory (Krackhardt, 1999, pp. 183–184). This theory develops the concept of betweenness centrality to a guiding principle for many different network situations. Ties that bridge to unconnected parts of the network may enable an actor to obtain unique information, negotiate better agreements, and generally be more powerful than an actor whose ties do not pro- vide such a bridging role. Burt refers to this bridge or separation between nonredundant contacts as a structural hole. An individ- ual who has two friends who themselves are not friends spans across a structural hole, brokering information and resources be- tween two people who may be indifferent or even hostile to each other.

According to the structural hole perspective, actors can lever- age their investments in social relations by establishing connections to a diverse set of actors (preferably actors unconnected to each other) rather than establishing all of their relationships with mem- bers of one cohesive group. The likelihood of gaining diverse in- formation and other valuable resources may, it is suggested, increase in direct proportion to the extent that an actor manages network connections to avoid redundancy and increase hetero- geneity. Research on the structural hole concept has suggested that individuals who span across structural holes tend to get faster pro- motions in corporations (Podolny & Baron, 1997); however, there is also evidence that spending time mediating between discon- nected individuals in an organization’s work ﬂow network can neg- atively affect performance appraisals (Mehra et al., 2001). Spending time trying to work with groups that have no need to coordinate may not be helpful to one’s career. Furthermore, businesspeople who spanned across the social network in a community of indepen- dent entrepreneurs tended to experience lower ﬁrm performance