---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1d43e9e84923d67481f5cca244bfe08cba60926c
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# High Self-Monitor to High Self-Monitor

In general, the research literature has supported the superiority of high self-monitors over low self-monitors in obtaining desirable or- ganizational rewards such as more promotions (Kilduff & Day, 1994), better performance ratings (Day et al., 2002), and more ad- vantageous positions in social networks (Mehra et al., 2001). Thus, it would appear that connections between high self-monitors would lead to the most structurally advantageous network conﬁgurations. These types of conﬁgurations would tend to provide connections between central network actors and therefore be the source of novel, divergent, and nonredundant information (Brass & Krack- hardt, 1999); however, the connections that are formed would tend to be low-commitment ties. This would be a natural function of the overall lower commitment of high self-monitors to their social (Snyder & Simpson, 1984) and work (Day et al., 2002) relation- ships. Whereas low-commitment ties might be adequate for ac- cessing a wider variety of informational resources, they may be less likely to yield high trust or commitment. In addition, the physical and mental well-being effects that are associated with social rela- tionships (see Reis et al., 2000, for a review) are likely to be atten- uated if the nature of the relationship is one of low commitment. High self-monitors tend to be in the minority in most social set- tings, forming only about 40 percent of the overall population (Gang- estad & Snyder, 1985; Kilduff, 1992). Given their motivation to seek the limelight (status enhancement), high self-monitors may be rel- atively scarce in many organizational settings involving production and back-room tasks and relatively overrepresented in settings in- volving boundary-spanning activities (compare Caldwell & O’Reilly, 1982) and upper-echelon work (Day et al., 2002; Kilduff & Day, 1994). Thus, the chances of ﬁnding network connections between high self-monitors is likely to be a function of the particular orga- nizational setting and the proportions of high self-monitors in that setting. However, high self-monitors, relative to low self-monitors, are likely to reach across spatial and geographical boundaries in
