---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5dc6bf39fd35ef46ddad243e4b75e4feb91fcf71
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## THE MULTILEVEL ROLE OF PERSONALITY IN TEAMS 197

One interesting external inﬂuence that may create norms, and thereby team-level personality, is the amount of autonomy given to a team as a whole. Consistent with research at the individual level (Barrick & Mount, 1993), it seems possible that individual traits will have more inﬂuence on a team trait when the team as a col- lective group has high autonomy. Teams with low autonomy are not likely to develop consistent traits, but teams with high auton- omy should develop unique norms, and thus traits, that represent combinations of individual traits. For instance, the dominance ef- fect for the interpersonal trait of Agreeableness is likely stronger when team autonomy allows norms consistent with a very dis- agreeable member’s having great latitude in choosing his or her behavior, thereby inﬂuencing others.

Another potentially important external inﬂuence is leadership. Linking back to the work of psychodynamic scholars such as Freud, personality development is shown to be strongly inﬂuenced by au- thority ﬁgures. The relationship that a team experiences with its leader early in its development phases may inﬂuence its team-level traits. For instance, a leader who makes statements that encourage exploration and creativity may develop norms that increase team Openness to Experience (Feldman, 1984). A leader who intermit- tently gives and takes away team autonomy may create norms that result in an emotionally unstable team (Stewart & Manz, 1995). Such inﬂuences may be particularly strong soon after the team is formed, before strong tendencies and patterns of interaction have developed. Stage theories of individual trait development may also inform team-level research. Erikson (1963) proposed that personality de- velopment occurs at stages across the life span. Other researchers (Levinson, 1986) have suggested that a particularly important stage occurs at about midlife, when environmental inﬂuences can have a relatively stronger inﬂuence. This perspective is supported for teams by Gersick’s model of punctuated equilibrium (1989). Her ﬁndings suggest that a team’s characteristics are developed early in its life span, but then undergo radical change near the tempo- ral midpoint of its existence. Team designers and leaders can thus time their interventions to occur near a team’s temporal midpoint in order to maximize the likelihood of altering norms that inﬂu- ence patterns of behavior and interaction.
