---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d5777e6ab6a302484fbdef95ba8eb9f741507dc4
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# EMERGING TRENDS AND NEEDS 293

Additional personality variables were included in the Borman, White, and Dorsey (1995) model. They identiﬁed four personality factors—dependability, friendly, obnoxious, and show-off—and ex- amined their effects, as well as the effects of cognitive ability, job knowledge, technical proﬁciency, and performance ratings, on su- pervisory and peer ratings. Dependability inﬂuenced performance as it had in the Borman et al. (1991) study. Friendly (or agreeable- ness) did not inﬂuence overall performance ratings provided by either supervisors or peers, whereas obnoxious inﬂuenced (nega- tively) peer ratings of overall performance but not supervisor rat- ings, and show-off inﬂuenced peer ratings of overall performance (positive correlation, acting perhaps as suppressor variable) but not supervisor ratings. With the inclusion of the three personality variables—dependability, show-off (a compound variable consist- ing of high Extraversion and low Agreeableness according to Hough & Ones, 2001), and obnoxious—variance accounted for in supervisor ratings of overall job performance was approximately twice that accounted for by the Hunter (1983) model and more than two and a half times for peer ratings.

The Borman et al. models (1991, 1995) are certainly improve- ments over the Hunter (1983) and Schmidt et al. (1986) models. Nonetheless, even the Borman et al. models are hampered by the kinds of jobs studied, use of overall job performance as the outcome variable (albeit a carefully developed criterion), and inadequate the- ory. The Borman et al. (1995) study examined determinants of su- pervisory and peer ratings of overall job performance of soldiers in ﬁve military jobs: infantrymen, armor crew members, radio tele- type operators, light wheel vehicle mechanics, and medical spe- cialists. (The Borman et al., 1991, study also included only soldiers in military jobs.) Borman et al. studied the determinants of the performance as measured by raters, hence the thought that ratee agreeableness might be relevant.

However, a good theory about the determinants of overall per- formance in military jobs is not likely to include ratee agreeable- ness as a determinant. Meta-analytic evidence existing at the time indicated that across jobs, agreeableness is not related to overall job performance (Barrick & Mount, 1991; Hough, 1992; Hough et al., 1990), and even more important for military jobs, agreeableness is not related to combat effectiveness but rugged individualism is
