data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0863.md, before:

# Multilevel Perspective

A multilevel perspective is one of the most important recent trends in our ﬁeld. It represents a paradigm shift from a focus on just the individual or just the organization (or a subunit such as a team or work group) to a perspective that incorporates multiple levels of analysis. The multilevel personnel selection framework that B. Schnei- der and his colleagues (B. Schneider, Smith, & Sipe, 2000; Ployhart & Schneider, 2002) propose exempliﬁes this approach to theory building. New ways of thinking about work—tasks; required knowl- edge, skills, and abilities (predictor constructs, including personality variables); and performance constructs—as well as validation mod- els are required. The research and trends already described for group- level performance variables and group-level personality predictor variables are especially relevant to multilevel research and theories.

Another study highlights the importance of using a multilevel approach to conceptualize, measure, and analyze variables and data. Grifﬁn (2001) hypothesized and found different effects when different levels of analyses were used to examine the effects of sta- ble personality characteristics and work characteristics on worker reactions. Speciﬁcally, between-group variance in worker reaction

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0863.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f468e7654bbe370f37c57e08ca5172dbbfe9088b
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# EMERGING TRENDS AND NEEDS 313

(see Hough & Furnham, 2003). Subjective methods other than self- report (for example, others’ reports, descriptions, and observations) are more common, as are objective methods such as conditional rea- soning, a strategy pioneered by James (1998) for measuring per- sonality characteristics based on the logic an individual uses to justify behavior. Although genetic testing (mouth swabs for DNA) is infrequently used, it may become more common. In the United States, however, legislative actions, Equal Employment Opportu- nity Commission guidelines for interpreting the Americans with Disability Act, and case law may preclude its use. Similarly, technol- ogy (digitization) has changed the mode of testing, making new con- structs possible, as well as new modes of measuring existing constructs (for example, response latency to measure extraversion). Testing using virtual reality has yet to come to fruition, but it will. Of course, new constructs and modes of measuring them bring new concerns about construct validity, equivalence, intended and unintended consequences, and new, unforeseen issues.
