data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0546.md, before:

# 168 PERSONALITY AND WORK

the attitudinal and normative components of the theory of rea- soned action and will not duplicate that process in respect of the set of work attitudes, perceptual variables, and emotional variables in Figure 6.1. We simply point out that there are a variety of means through which the attitudinal and normative components might mediate the relationship among work attitudes, workplace per- ceptions, emotions, and CWBs. For a simple example of mediation, perceptions of workplace injustice may adversely affect the moti- vation of an individual to comply with the wishes of others, thus decreasing the value of the subjective norm component of the be- havioral intention equation and, consequently, increasing the like- lihood that an individual will engage in a CWB. For an example of moderation, the presence of a workplace security camera would be expected to increase the perceived negative consequences of engaging in a CWB. In this manner, it should foster negative atti- tudes toward CWBs, thus reducing the behavioral intention to en- gage in them. The altered behavioral intention should affect the relationship between perceptions of injustice and the probability that perception will be translated into a CWB.

Personality as a Moderator of the Relationship Between Organizational Features and Satisfaction, Perceived Injustice, and Stress

Our discussion to this point has focused on the role personality traits may play in initiating counterproductive behaviors. We now turn to a set of processes wherein organizational events and fea- tures trigger the occurrence of unwanted behaviors. Because coun- terproductive behaviors occur in this process as a reaction to organizational events, we classify these types of behaviors as reac- tive CWBs.

We hypothesize that organizational events inﬂuence reactive CWBs indirectly by inﬂuencing employees’ perceptions of job stress, job satisfaction, and justice, which in turn inﬂuence the oc- currence of the counterproductive behaviors. For the purposes of this chapter, we interpret the phrase organizational events very broadly to include job characteristics, work group characteristics, and company policies and practices.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0546.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a4ed840f65a35a10e82e002a3aaeaef6ae46c285
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# Personality and Job Satisfaction

One of the most frequently studied work attitudes is job satisfaction, often deﬁned as an affective reaction to one’s job (Fisher, 2000) or a pleasurable or emotional state resulting from an appraisal of one’s job (Locke, 1969). Theoretically, there are a number of reasons that personality should be predictive of job satisfaction. Perhaps the most straightforward explanation is that our natural resting state of E/PE or N/NE may affect our affective judgments about the world in which we work. For instance, individuals who are higher on the E/PE dimension may be more inclined to make a positive summary evaluation of the work environment. In contrast, individuals high on N/NE may be more inclined to make a negative summary eval- uation of the work environment.

Mood induction experiments provide some support for this proposition, especially with respect to negative affect. For instance, individuals with higher negative affect are more susceptible to a neg- ative mood induction than those low in negative affect (Larsen & Ketelaar, 1991) and more resistant to a positive mood induction (Brief, Butcher, & Roberson, 1995). Thus, individuals high on N/NE may have a predisposition to focus on what is negative in the work environment and ignore what is positive. A recent meta-analysis by Connolly and Viswesvaran (2000) conﬁrms that negative and positive affect are strongly related to job satisfaction. They found that the sample-size weighted corrected mean correlations of job satisfaction with positive and negative affect were, respectively, .49 and −.33. As we will explore more fully, the link between job satis- faction and various CWBs is well established. In particular, job sat- isfaction is negatively related to turnover (Carsten & Spector, 1987) and absenteeism (Hackett, 1989).

In closing this section, we note that Figure 6.1 posits that the at- titudinal and normative components of the theory of reasoned ac- tion both mediate and moderate the linkage between our set of work attitudes, perceptions, and emotions and CWBs. We have al- ready sought to explain the manner in which personality traits affect
