data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0631.md, before:

# 210 PERSONALITY AND WORK

Those who are relatively low on self-monitoring fulﬁll different motives through their relationships. Low self-monitors may eschew overt impression management, preferring to display attitudes and behaviors that communicate what they consider to be their gen- uine selves. Low self-monitors cultivate relationships based on per- ceived similarities in values, beliefs, and interests. Thus, it is not surprising that low self-monitors have more homogeneous social networks than high self-monitors (Gangestad & Snyder, 2000).

Low self-monitors tend to adopt a partner-based approach to relationships. They strive to maximize the ﬁt between themselves and their friends and associates; relationships are seen as partner- ships built around the mutual appreciation of shared values, ideals, or activities (Snyder, 1987). Low self-monitors, relative to high self- monitors, demonstrate greater levels of commitment to their per- sonal (Snyder & Simpson, 1984) and work relationships (Day et al., 2002), express less intent to leave their current jobs (Jenkins, 1993), and tend to remain with current employers longer (Kilduff & Day, 1994). These noted differences between high and low self- monitors have distinct implications for the respective types of so- cial networks that are created and maintained, as well as for the respective kinds of social capital that are constructed.

A recent review and reappraisal of the research literature on self-monitoring noted a wide range of external criteria that directly tap a central dimension measured by Snyder’s Self-Monitoring Scale (Gangestad & Snyder, 2000; Snyder & Gangestad, 1986). The categories of effects most strongly associated with the central di- mension of self-monitoring were (1) variation in the predisposi- tion to engage in impression management (behavioral variability, sensitivity to expectations, interpersonal orientation, and being im- pressed with physical attractiveness); (2) skills needed for effective image cultivation and projection (expressive control and nonver- bal decoding skills); and (3) the relationship between private be- liefs and public actions (attitude-behavior relations and attitude accessibility).

At its core, however, Gangestad and Snyder (2000) speculate that self-monitoring personality “relates to status-oriented impres- sion management motives” (p. 547). That is, high self-monitors may strive to cultivate public images that create the appearance of social status, and therefore their social networks may serve as a pri-

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0631.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d239ae27835e4179dc582a3645765534205ae5e6
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## SELF-MONITORING PERSONALITY AND WORK RELATIONSHIPS 209

ditions in which self-monitoring personality predicted (or did not predict) behavior. The most complex situational strategy seeks to understand the reciprocal inﬂuences of situations and personality on social behavior, with a focus on understanding how high and low self-monitors choose and inﬂuence their situations. These choices regarding settings and situations are thought to reﬂect im- portant aspects of personal identity, such as representations of self, beliefs, attitudes, values, and traits (Snyder, 1987). The current state of self-monitoring research, which differentiates it from the focus of most other personality research, especially in industrial/ organizational psychology, is focused on this third strategy. It as- sumes that the situations in which people ﬁnd themselves are due in large part to their individual choices. In particular, we address the theory and research that pertains to the respective choices that high and low self-monitors make regarding their relationships with others in organizations.

A recent review and synthesis of the literature on self-moni- toring proposes that the relationships constructed by high self- monitors may derive from a status enhancement motive, whereas relationships constructed by low self-monitors may derive from a self-validation motive (Gangestad & Snyder, 2000). Relationships to high self-monitors are, in part, a means for impression and image management. Friends and associates may be important to the extent that they contribute to potential image enhancement associated with belonging to a prestigious social network. High self- monitors may be susceptible to the lure of basking in the reﬂected glory of others who are seen as important, accomplished, or oth- erwise celebrated (Cialdini, 1989). Afﬁliating with others of high status is an effective means of acquiring reputational capital and power for all actors in organizations (Kilduff & Krackhardt, 1994) and may be particularly appealing to high self-monitors.

The relationships of high self-monitors also tend to be activity based. That is, high self-monitors tend to choose friends and asso- ciates based on others’ relative ﬁt to the activity at hand (Snyder, 1987). In the realm of leisure activities, high self-monitors would tend to choose tennis or golf partners based on their ability level. In work relationships, help or advice would tend to be sought from those individuals considered to have superior expertise in the do- main of interest.
