data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0060.md, before:

# FOREWORD xiii

Day and Kilduff consider similar issues in Chapter Eight and also point to the role of an individual’s skill in monitoring and manag- ing relationships in groups and organizations. In Chapter Nine, Ford and Oswald examine the evidence for and potential beneﬁts of a consideration of dispositional determinants of learning and training performance, as well as the successful transfer of training to one’s work situation. Chapter Ten by Ryan and Kristof-Brown considers the nature and importance of the ﬁt between individuals and the organization in which they work. The last two chapters, by Hough and by Mount, Barrick, and Ryan, are consistent with the major message of this book: that models of personality-performance relationships must go well beyond the consideration of bivariate re- lationships. The challenge that these more complex models pre- sent for scientist and practitioner alike should provide an exciting and stimulating research venue for many years to come.

Our target audiences include graduate students in I/O psy- chology and organizational behavior, as well as doctoral-level re- searchers and practitioners who want to gain knowledge on the most up-to-date data and theory regarding the important role of per- sonality in determining a variety of work behaviors as well as the reasons that these relationships exist (or do not exist) in various situations. Many of the topics and issues discussed in this book will be novel to many I/O psychologists and human resource practi- tioners. We have certainly read about personality, but there has not been a similar focus on understanding the mechanisms involved in personality-behavior relationships or the complex interplay of individual differences, situations, and outcomes. To the degree that this book fosters investigation of richer and more complex mod- els of these relationships and stimulates interest among other I/O researchers and practitioners and a collaboration with researchers in other disciplines, it will advance our discipline and contribute to the goals of the Organizational Frontiers series.

The chapter authors deserve our gratitude for pursuing the goal of clearly communicating the nature, application, and impli- cations of the theory and research described in this book. Produc- tion of a book such as this involves the hard work and cooperative effort of many individuals. The chapter authors and the editorial board played important roles in this endeavor. Because all royalties from the series volumes are used to help support SIOP ﬁnancially,

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0060.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f613865d1a96665b04bb45e3222d130a3e82e654
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# xii FOREWORD

in work behavior. Research on the nature of personality and the role of dispositional constructs in explaining a variety of work be- havior exploded in the early 1990s. The renewed interest in this area began with the meta-analytic demonstration by Barrick and Mount (1991) that there are generalizable relationships between some personality constructs and work performance and the grow- ing consensus among many personality researchers (Digman, 1990) that the myriad of personality measures and empirical stud- ies on the structure of personality suggested that ﬁve major per- sonality constructs represent the personality domain well. This book provides a review of some of this research and then goes well beyond a reexamination of these issues to explore the process by which personality exerts its inﬂuence on work outcomes. Also con- sidered is a much wider array of work behavior (including con- textual performance, counterproductive behavior, retaliatory behavior, retention, and learning) than simply performance of one’s assigned work role. This book brings together basic person- ality researchers and those interested in applications of personal- ity in the work context, one of the major goals of the series since its inception.

In Chapter One, Saucier and Goldberg provide a deﬁnition of personality, examine evidence on the structure of personality at- tributes, and raise issues about the adequacy of the Big Five model on several important criteria. Lucas and Diener next explore the evidence for, and the importance of, happiness variables (or satis- faction, to use a more common term in the I/O literature) as func- tional determinants of the choices people make and the behaviors in which they engage. They provide the quite reasonable, but rarely explored, hypothesis that the role of happiness in explain- ing worker behavior and productivity is dependent on the behav- iors that are important and examined. Chapter Three, by Barrick, Mitchell, and Stewart, also reﬂects the theme that situational and motivational variables inﬂuence the relationship between person- ality and work behavior. Chapters Four (by Johnson), Five (by Weiss and Kurek), and Six (by Cullen and Sackett) explore in de- tail aspects of the process model of the personality-performance relationship. In Chapter Seven, Stewart makes a strong case that personality–work behavior relationships can be understood only by examining cross-level (individual, team, organization) effects.
