---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8c9efde732b0952c9ef0d50335b4d503eab4354a
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## PERSONALITY IN PERSON-ORGANIZATION FIT RESEARCH 267

To understand this ﬁnding, we believe it is useful to look more closely at how ﬁt is conceptualized and measured in studies of value-based versus personality-based PO ﬁt. In particular, it is im- portant to consider how the “O” is operationalized. In values-based studies, PO ﬁt is typically assessed as the similarity or congru- ence between an individual’s values and those of the organization. It is generally accepted that organizational cultures are charac- terized by values (Schein, 1992). These can be measured in a va- riety of ways, such as by examining written statements of espoused values (mission statements, for example) or asking members of the top management team to report the organization’s values. When an individual’s personal values are matched against com- pany values measured in any of these ways, the type of ﬁt being as- sessed is supplementary ﬁt (Muchinsky & Monahan, 1987); that is, ﬁt is demonstrated by similarity between individual and orga- nizational characteristics.

Unlike studies of values, which tend to use the congruence ap- proach, a recent review by Judge and Kristof-Brown (in press) re- veals that personality ﬁt has been operationalized in as many as six different ways. Of these, most studies of personality-based PO ﬁt can be separated into two general types of ﬁt assessments. The ﬁrst is similar to value congruence research, in which supplementary ﬁt is inferred if the individual’s personality is similar to the organization’s personality. One concern with this approach is that although it is widely accepted that organizations have values, the idea of ascrib- ing traits to organizations is more often considered anthropomor- phizing (Chatman, 1989). Slaughter et al. (2001) conducted a series of studies to demonstrate that individuals can ascribe human per- sonality traits to organizations. However, they found that there is not a completely commensurate set of traits that is ideal for de- scribing individuals and organizations (that is, some traits relevant for describing individuals are not readily adapted or often used to describe organizations). Because of these challenges, some re- searchers have resorted to assessing organizational personality as the aggregate of the personality traits of incumbent employees.

Results of studies using this approach to assessing personality- based PO ﬁt have been equivocal at best. Day and Bedeian (1995) ex- amined whether the relationship between an individual’s FFM traits and those of current employees predicted important individual-level
