# 64 PERSONALITY AND WORK

(sales, managers). Agreeableness is a valid predictor of perfor- mance in jobs with cooperative demands or opportunities (use of work teams). Finally, Openness to Experience has not been found to relate to many outcomes of interest at work.

One explanation for the disappointing conclusions about Openness is that this trait is the least well understand personality construct in the FFM literature (Digman, 1990). Consequently, the weak relationships found to date may be attributable to an in- adequately deﬁned construct. Some researchers have even begun questioning the utility of this trait. However, recent evidence sug- gests that Openness to Experience may be related to creativ- ity (George & Zhou, 2001). Such research may eventually help illustrate the validity of this construct. However, given the current ambiguity associated with Openness, it is not contained in our model.

Moving beyond our current understanding of the relationship between speciﬁc personality traits and overall performance re- quires an exploration of the mechanisms through which these per- sonality traits inﬂuence performance. Today, most researchers assume that distal personality traits affect performance primarily through proximal motivational mediators (Barrick, Mount, & Strauss, 1993; Barrick, Stewart, & Piotrowski, 2002; Kanfer, 1991). Recent reviews of the motivation literature (Ambrose & Kulik, 1999; Mitchell & Daniels, 2002) point out that the construct cur- rently dominating the motivational literature is goals (Austin & Vancouver, 1996). Goals, combined with efﬁcacy and expectancy beliefs, have been integrated into an overarching self-regulatory, social cognitive approach to motivation that focuses on what the individual can do, wants to do, and will do in terms of future be- havior and how such beliefs and aspirations affect current action. The cognitive processes attributed to goal setting that are mo- tivationally relevant are arousal, focusing attention, and establish- ing intentions. Establishing intentions includes the allocation of effort, persistence, and some sort of task strategy. Personality vari- ables could probably inﬂuence most, if not all, of these factors. For example, goal discrepancies (distance to goal achievement) pre- sumably cause arousal and direct attention. Thus, people who are focused on accomplishing task-oriented goals but are not accom- plishing their interpersonal goals would be aroused and focused