# 220 PERSONALITY AND WORK

with low self-monitors may be able to beneﬁt from resources that are more likely to be found in the relationships between low self- monitors. High self-monitors tend to look to others for cues as to the attitudes and behaviors that are normatively appropriate. Low self-monitors, by contrast, look within themselves for the attitudes and behaviors that express their true selves. High self-monitors therefore are more likely to be inﬂuenced by others in their atti- tudes and behaviors than are low self-monitors (Kilduff, 1992). The high self-monitors may gain from low self-monitors’ infor- mation concerning the range of opinions and behaviors that are possible in a particular social situation. Low self-monitors may look to the high self-monitors for help in negotiating across boundaries between individuals or groups holding divergent views. Considerable research shows that high self-monitors tend to emerge as leaders in leaderless groups (Zaccaro, Foti, & Kenny, 1991) and tend to resolve conﬂicts through collaboration and compromise (Baron, 1989). Low self-monitors may be able to in- ﬂuence many more people outside their own tightly knit groups by ﬁrst inﬂuencing a high self-monitor who is in a boundary- spanning position. Conversely, a low self-monitor would beneﬁt from the nonredundant information that a high self-monitor would likely bring to the network.

A risk in connecting a high and a low self-monitor is that a po- tential negative tie (that is, a relationship in which one person has a negative affective judgment of another person; Brass, 2001) will form. A risk to high self-monitors is that they will come across as disingenuous because of potential inconsistencies in their opin- ions and behavior. Appearing disingenuous or insincere is likely to be objectionable to low self-monitors and may contribute to a lack of respect. Low self-monitors may appear dogmatic and inﬂexible to high self-monitors. High self-monitors who value meeting oth- ers’ expectations and ﬁtting in with prevailing social norms may end up disliking low self-monitors, who tend to express deeply held opinions even when they are not normatively appropriate. Nonetheless, there are reasons that network ties between high and low self-monitors may be advantageous to both parties. Unfortu- nately, there are structural (in addition to the psychological) con- straints that discourage this type of connection.