# RESEARCH THEMES FOR THE FUTURE 339

of individual motives to individual performance links, Cullen and Sackett (Chapter Six) mention organizational events, Stewart (Chapter Seven) discusses the team setting as a moderator between individual traits and individual performance, Day and Kilduff (Chap- ter Eight) discuss features of networks, Ford and Oswald (Chapter Nine) consider learning situations, and Ryan and Kristof-Brown (Chapter Ten) relate how organizational features result in individ- ual complementary ﬁt assessments. It is clear that no formulation of the effects of personality in work settings, even on individual-level outcome variables (such as learning, counterproductivity, or per- formance), should leave out a consideration of the inﬂuence of the higher-level context. As we have already noted, researchers in the area of personality and work must avoid simplistic theorizing and embrace models that contain concepts at multiple levels.

Another principle of multilevel theory building stated by Koz- lowski and Klein (2000) is that “conceptualization of emergent phenomena at higher levels should specify, theoretically, the na- ture and form of these bottom-up emergent processes” (p. 18). In the area of personality and work, one example of these processes occurs when assessing the personality of a team or an organization. Ryan and Kristof-Brown (Chapter Ten) noted the problems of con- ceptualizing the “personality of the organization,” and Hough (Chapter Eleven) mentions the difﬁculty of operationalizing higher-level predictors such as dyadic levels of extraversion. Day and Kilduff (Chapter Eight) provide an illustration of how one might examine the role of personality in the formation and main- tenance of dyadic relations in their chapter on self-monitoring and social networks. Stewart (Chapter Seven) also tackles this difﬁcult task and provides a detailed discussion of team-level personality and a genetic analogy to describe the possible nature of the processes by which a team-level trait might be formed. In order for our understanding of the attraction-selection-attrition model, so- cial network formation, and team composition effects to advance, such conceptualization is critical.

Multilevel theories generally recognize the concept of bond strength (Simon, 1973)—that relationships across levels are greater for more proximal levels. As Ryan and Kristof-Brown (Chapter Ten) note, it may be more fruitful to pursue the notion of per- sonality ﬁt at the team or group level than at the organizational