---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b56ca18b39e72a2e4c740e9d4ac6c0f47a5615cb
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 98 PERSONALITY AND WORK

are likely most predictive of motivation. This is supported by Mc- Cloy et al. (1994), who found higher personality-performance cor- relations when performance was measured by ratings, which reﬂect all three performance determinants, than when performance was measured by job knowledge tests or work samples, which do not reﬂect motivation.

Research supports the notion of motivation as a mediator of the personality-performance relationship. Barrick, Mount, and Strauss (1993) found that the link between Conscientiousness and two measures of sales representative job performance (supervisor ratings and sales volume) was mediated by the motivational vari- ables of goal setting and goal commitment. Gellatly (1996) found that performance expectancy and goal choice mediated the link between Conscientiousness and performance on an arithmetic task. Barrick, Stewart, and Piotrowski (2002) noted that the moti- vational variables of accomplishment striving and status striving mediated the relationship between Conscientiousness and job per- formance of sales representatives, and status striving mediated the relationship between Extraversion and job performance.

Campbell et al.’s (1993) model of performance determinants provides a general explanation of how individual differences in personality translate to individual differences in job performance on a particular dimension. Motowidlo et al. (1997) expanded this model to explain why personality should be a better predictor of contextual performance dimensions than of task performance di- mensions. They split declarative knowledge and procedural knowl- edge and skill into task knowledge and skill and contextual knowledge and skill. Task knowledge is knowledge of facts, princi- ples, and procedures relevant to the core technical functions of the organization, and task skill is skill in performing necessary ac- tions to complete tasks. Contextual knowledge is knowledge of facts, principles, and procedures relevant to maintaining the or- ganizational environment in which the technical core must func- tion (such as knowing how to cooperate with others and how to present a favorable image of the organization), and contextual skill is skill in performing actions known to be effective in situations calling for contextual performance. Task knowledge and skill are determined primarily by cognitive ability, which is supported by ample research (Borman, White, & Dorsey, 1995; Hunter, 1983;
