---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d516f22c5b71662d8c023e1cf125cf2923f2615d
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 278 PERSONALITY AND WORK

activities may not convey much or even accurate information on which to judge personality congruence, even if they contain direct statements of values. The source and accuracy of the information conveyed in recruiting should inﬂuence the accuracy of supple- mentary ﬁt assessments. The realistic job preview (RJP) literature clearly attests to how the nature of information inﬂuences expecta- tions (see Phillips, 1998, for a meta-analysis); one would expect that realistic organizational previews that provide information related to personality congruence would be helpful.

Alternatively, complementary ﬁt assessments should be more accurate because they are based on objective organizational char- acteristics and self-assessments of personality. Thus, the differences already noted in ﬁndings of studies examining supplementary and complementary ﬁt based on personality may be reﬂective of the ac- curacy with which one can assess the “O” side of the ﬁt equation in these instances.

A second issue with regard to the accuracy of ﬁt assessments is the extent to which individuals are able and willing to change those assessments given feedback regarding objective ﬁt. Dineen, Ash, and Noe (2001) pursued the behavioral plasticity hypothesis with regard to self-esteem and ﬁt, which would suggest that those with low self-esteem would be more affected by ﬁt feedback when forming impressions of attraction than high self-esteem individu- als who are less behaviorally malleable. They found that high self- esteem individuals were more likely to follow their objective ﬁt regardless of whether they were given feedback regarding high or low ﬁt with the organization; individuals with low self-esteem devi- ated from their objective ﬁt when told they did not ﬁt. They did not ﬁnd a similar effect for conscientiousness. Thus, personality traits may inﬂuence how individuals respond to information about ﬁt and the extent to which they can adjust ﬁt assessments. Stated another way, are there certain types of individuals who misjudge ﬁt more often than others? Could these be individuals with less ac- curate self-assessments? Or are these individuals who look in terms of aspirations (what one would like to be) rather than what is and seek an environment that will affect the self? We expect that cer- tain individual differences are related to the accuracy of ﬁt assess- ments (self-esteem) just as they are related to the accuracy of self-assessments (Mabe & West, 1982).
