---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4738f0287ad8b5d11d97e68e84ddb091bad95231
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## PERSONALITY IN PERSON-ORGANIZATION FIT RESEARCH 269

leagues (Bretz, Ash, & Dreher, 1989; Bretz & Judge, 1994) reported that personality traits including locus of control and risk aversion moderated the relationship between human resource systems and job seekers’ attraction to organizations. Cable and Judge (1994) extended these ﬁndings with a policy-capturing study that demon- strated that interactions between personality traits (materialism, locus of control, individualism/collectivism, self-efﬁcacy, and risk aversion) and compensation system attributes predicted job choice. Turban, Lau, Ngo, Chow, and Si (2001) found that prospective labor market entrants’ risk aversion and need for pay moderated the relationship between type of ownership (wholly owned foreign enterprise versus international joint venture) and organizational attractiveness, probability of seeking an interview, and probability of accepting a job offer. Taken as a whole, these results support the importance of a ﬁt between a wide array of individual personality traits and organizational characteristics.

Reviewing the personality-based PO ﬁt literature reveals a num- ber of important implications. First, there are several reasons to support the notion that examining personality-based PO ﬁt is meaningful. Personality is stable over time and proximal to be- haviors, and certain traits are relatively easy to observe. Therefore, the personality ﬁt between a person and an organization is unlikely to change much over time, should inﬂuence behavior as well as at- titudes, and may be easy for recruiters to assess. Having said that, the empirical evidence suggests that how personality-based PO ﬁt is conceptualized and measured matters a great deal. Speciﬁcally, it is a useful predictor when assessed as the complementary ﬁt be- tween individuals and objective organizational characteristics, such as compensation system, centralization, or ownership form. In these instances, the organization is meeting the individual’s needs or preferences and therefore providing something that the indi- vidual desires. However, when PO ﬁt is measured as the congru- ence between individuals’ personalities and those of others in the organization, it is not typically a useful predictor. This is perhaps not surprising when one considers that the individual interacts with only a small percentage of the total workforce in an organization. We believe it is more likely that an individual will be inﬂuenced by personality compatibility with those in his or her immediate work group. This implies that if ﬁt is to be assessed as personality
