# Personality as a Predictor of CWBs

As summarized by Sackett and DeVore (2001), the results of count- less individual studies and at least three meta-analyses have estab- lished that personality traits are useful predictors of a wide variety of CWBs. Meta-analytic evidence from the integrity testing litera- ture, the Big Five literature, and the literature on the prediction of military performance all make clear that some personality dimen- sions show consistent relationships to CWBs. The strongest ﬁndings are for the dimension of Conscientiousness. First, integrity tests showed sizable relationships (mean observed r = .27 and .20 for two different types of integrity tests) with CWBs, and research on the constructs underlying integrity tests showed that Conscientiousness was the single largest source of variance in integrity tests, followed by Agreeableness and Emotional Stability (Ones, Viswesvaran, & Schmidt, 1993). Second, Hough (1992) separated the Big Five Con- scientiousness dimension into dependability and achievement sub- facets and reported similar relationships with CWB criteria (mean observed r = .19 and .24 for achievement and dependability). Third, the military’s Project A similarly separated dependability and achievement and reported comparable ﬁndings (mean observed r = .18 and .30 for achievement and dependability; McHenry, Hough, Toquam, Hanson, & Ashworth, 1990). These conclusions were based on well over one hundred studies of several hundred thousand individuals. Thus, among the Big Five personality di- mensions, Conscientiousness is the strongest predictor of a broad class of CWBs. There is also general support for the hypothesis that Emotional Stability and Agreeableness are predictive of broad cat- egories of CWBs.