# THE CONTRIBUTORS xxi

focused on examining the affective underpinnings of the extraver- sion personality dimension. He received his Ph.D. in personality psychology from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

Terence R. Mitchell is Edward E. Carlson Professor of Business Ad- ministration and professor of psychology at the University of Wash- ington. He has published over one hundred articles on the topics of decision making, leadership, motivation, and turnover. He is co- author (with J. Larson) of People in Organizations and a joint author (with Phillip Birnbaum and William G. Scott) of Organization The- ory: A Structural and Behavioral Analysis. Mitchell is a fellow of the American Psychological Association, the Society for Industrial/ Organizational Psychology (SIOP), and the American Academy of Management and received the SIOP Distinguished Scientiﬁc Con- tribution award in 1998. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Illinois.

Michael K. Mount is the Henry B. Tippie Professor of Human Re- source Management in the Department of Management and Or- ganizations at the University of Iowa. He has published numerous journal articles, book chapters, and convention papers on a vari- ety of human resource management topics. His current research interests fall into two broad categories. The ﬁrst examines the processes by which Five-Factor Model personality dimensions re- late to job performance. The second examines the psychometric properties of multirater feedback ratings and how such ratings re- late to organizational outcomes. He is a fellow in the Society for Industrial/Organizational Psychology and the American Psycho- logical Association. He received his Ph.D. from Iowa State Univer- sity in industrial/organizational psychology.

Frederick L. Oswald is an assistant professor in industrial/organi- zational psychology at Michigan State University. His research cov- ers individual differences within ability, motivation, and personality domains as they relate to modeling and predicting performance criteria; methodology, particularly meta-analysis, with computer sim- ulation work informing researchers and practitioners on how to in- terpret meta-analyses in organizational research; person-job ﬁt applications in the context of the O*NET occupational database;