---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 23ff8605f100474a202eb8739141a2551ec75caf
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 332 PERSONALITY AND WORK

factors if we are to understand how personality relates to workplace behavior and affect. These two themes, discussed by Barrick et al. (Chapter Three), Johnson (Chapter Four), Cullen and Sackett (Chapter Six), Stewart (Chapter Seven), Ford and Oswald (Chap- ter Nine), and Hough (Chapter Eleven), present new sets of challenges for researchers. For example, Barrick et al. propose that cognitive-motivational work intentions must be accounted for as an explanatory mechanism for why personality traits are associated with high levels of work performance. They focus on the role of three motivational components or personal strivings, which they deﬁne as speciﬁc means of attaining desired end states. Accom- plishment striving is cognitively accessible as representing inten- tions to exert effort and work hard, communion striving refers to getting along with others, and status striving refers to gaining power and refers to getting ahead of others. These three cognitive- motivational intentions or strivings are proposed as a core set of higher-order goals that regulate behavior at work. Consequently, an important contribution of this chapter is that it provides a the- oretical model for understanding how cognitive-motivational in- tentions link personality and outcomes.

Johnson (Chapter Four) also discusses the need to understand mediating variables through which personality inﬂuences perfor- mance. He illustrates how different personality variables inﬂuence different components of motivation, which in turn inﬂuence dif- ferent components of performance. An important contribution of this chapter is the discussion of three components of motivation: motives, proactive cognitive processes, and on-line cognitive pro- cesses. Motives include variables such as job attitudes (for example, organizational citizenship behaviors, job satisfaction, and organi- zation commitment), as well as the three cognitive-motivational in- tentions discussed by Barrick et al. Proactive processes include motivational constructs such as self-efﬁcacy, expectancy, and goal setting. On-line cognitive processes refer to the translation of in- tention to action. Johnson’s view is that a complete understanding of motivation requires consideration of all three categories of mo- tivation. The common theme of the chapters by Barrick et al. and Johnson is that self-regulatory processes represented by motivation are important mediators of relations between personality and per- formance, and previous research has inadequately accounted for
