---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 13acf0d79e983cac9cb25ac5c68d3cac5d4e6054
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 44 PERSONALITY AND WORK

The effect of positive emotions on health and immune func- tioning may be direct or be mediated by processes described in previous sections. For example, Sapolsky (1999) described the de- structive effects that chronic stress has on the body and the im- mune system. He also noted that certain ways of responding to stress (including seeking social support, believing that one has control over the stressor, and having an optimistic view of one’s situation) can moderate the harmful effects of stress. Notably, many of these moderators are strongly associated with happiness and well-being. Thus, although positive affect may not play a di- rect role in immune functioning, it may moderate the effects of negative affect on health outcomes (for a similar argument, see Danner, Snowdon, & Friesen, 2001). In addition, it appears that coping processes that are often linked with happiness may help individuals overcome the negative effects of stress. Scheier, Carver, and Bridges (2001) noted that subjective well-being and related variables (including dispositional optimism) are related to suc- cessful coping strategies like active engagement. Thus, happy in- dividuals may be predisposed to cope more adaptively, allowing them to overcome the negative physical and mental health effects of stress.

Implications for Work and Productivity Differences in health and coping can have signiﬁcant and long- lasting effects on outcome variables. For one thing, positive affect may help employees to deal with stressors, and the ability to deal with stress may affect performance (see Spector, Dwyer, & Jex, 1988, for a discussion of the associations between stress and productivity). In addition, positive affect may have important indirect implica- tions for employee productivity. Both Danner et al. (2001) and Ostir, Markides, Black, and Goodwin (2000) found evidence that positive emotionality predicted longevity (though Friedman, 1999, found opposite results, perhaps because happier participants were more likely to die from risky behaviors). It would be reasonable to assume, then, that happier workers would be less likely to miss work due to illness and may be less susceptible to the negative ef- fects of stress. Cutting down on the number of illnesses would not only reduce absence, it could potentially decrease health care costs. Yet researchers must be careful to assess the impact of happiness and well-being very carefully. As the longevity literature shows, hap-
