---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 435b524c0a49de19f0425bff1df1ee9b1c69658b
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## PERSONALITY AND COUNTERPRODUCTIVE WORKPLACE BEHAVIOR 173

traversion, and Conscientiousness and that individuals higher on Impulsivity, lower on Extraversion, and lower on Conscientious- ness will be more likely to react to those perceptions by engaging in CWBs than individuals at the opposite ends of those dimensions. Many studies have examined the relationship between per- sonality traits and coping with stress. Most of the research in this regard has been conducted in relation to neuroticism, or negative affect, and many studies ﬁnd that negative affect is associated with avoidance-based coping, distancing oneself, hostile reactions, and detachment rather than problem-focused coping and support seek- ing (Bolger, 1990; Costa & McCrae, 1989; Folkman & Lazarus, 1985; Smith, Pope, Rhodewalt, & Poulton, 1989). Other studies ﬁnd that pessimism, a trait often associated with negative affect, is a moderator of the stress-outcome relationship (Carver & Scheier, 1999). Optimists tend to cope by using more problem-focused cop- ing strategies, whereas pessimists tend to cope by disengaging from goals. In general, these studies support the contention that neu- roticism represents a vulnerability factor that predisposes an indi- vidual to react negatively toward stressors (Spielberger, Gorsuch, & Lushene, 1970). They are also consistent with the view of neu- roticism reﬂected in personality inventories themselves, which often explicitly contain items directed to the issue of stress reac- tivity (for example, “I sometimes get too upset by minor setbacks”; Watson & Hubbard, 1996).

In terms of implications for CWBs, this research suggests that individuals high in negative affect may respond to stressful work environments (and potentially to job dissatisfaction and injustice as well) by engaging in retaliatory work behaviors and reducing ef- fort on work-related tasks. Support for these hypotheses comes from a study by Skarlicki et al. (1999), who found that the rela- tionship between perceptions of injustice and retaliatory behaviors by employees had the strongest effect on individuals low in Agree- ableness and high on negative affect, and Strutton and Lumpkin (1992), who found that pessimists react to work stress by increas- ing the number of non-work-related behaviors, such as sleeping, eating, or drinking.

The question of which CWBs the high-negative-affect individ- ual will perpetrate in response to feelings of stress or dissatisfac- tion may depend somewhat on the level of speciﬁcity at which one
