---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d239ae27835e4179dc582a3645765534205ae5e6
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## SELF-MONITORING PERSONALITY AND WORK RELATIONSHIPS 209

ditions in which self-monitoring personality predicted (or did not predict) behavior. The most complex situational strategy seeks to understand the reciprocal inﬂuences of situations and personality on social behavior, with a focus on understanding how high and low self-monitors choose and inﬂuence their situations. These choices regarding settings and situations are thought to reﬂect im- portant aspects of personal identity, such as representations of self, beliefs, attitudes, values, and traits (Snyder, 1987). The current state of self-monitoring research, which differentiates it from the focus of most other personality research, especially in industrial/ organizational psychology, is focused on this third strategy. It as- sumes that the situations in which people ﬁnd themselves are due in large part to their individual choices. In particular, we address the theory and research that pertains to the respective choices that high and low self-monitors make regarding their relationships with others in organizations.

A recent review and synthesis of the literature on self-moni- toring proposes that the relationships constructed by high self- monitors may derive from a status enhancement motive, whereas relationships constructed by low self-monitors may derive from a self-validation motive (Gangestad & Snyder, 2000). Relationships to high self-monitors are, in part, a means for impression and image management. Friends and associates may be important to the extent that they contribute to potential image enhancement associated with belonging to a prestigious social network. High self- monitors may be susceptible to the lure of basking in the reﬂected glory of others who are seen as important, accomplished, or oth- erwise celebrated (Cialdini, 1989). Afﬁliating with others of high status is an effective means of acquiring reputational capital and power for all actors in organizations (Kilduff & Krackhardt, 1994) and may be particularly appealing to high self-monitors.

The relationships of high self-monitors also tend to be activity based. That is, high self-monitors tend to choose friends and asso- ciates based on others’ relative ﬁt to the activity at hand (Snyder, 1987). In the realm of leisure activities, high self-monitors would tend to choose tennis or golf partners based on their ability level. In work relationships, help or advice would tend to be sought from those individuals considered to have superior expertise in the do- main of interest.
