---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 29a7f3ca5c54dd5c13cac9b65c8da8b0dd4a85b8
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 12 PERSONALITY AND WORK

structure, with very broad factors related to the affective meaning dimensions of Osgood et al. (1975) at the top of the hierarchy. At a slightly lower level of breadth are the Big Five or partially related alternatives that have been recovered in some languages. Although some investigators have claimed that factors like the Big Five are human universals (McCrae & Costa, 1997), this conclusion is cer- tainly premature. Even at this early juncture, we can ﬁnd studies of languages in which the Big Five do not seem to be the best model for representing the indigenous lexical structure. Clearly, tests of the Big Five against competitor structures are needed.

Moreover, there are some important limitations to the body of lexical studies carried out to date. More studies are needed in non- Western settings where the majority of the world’s human popula- tion resides and with non-European languages. Lexical studies have focused almost entirely on those attributes represented in ad- jectives, although some attributes may be represented mainly as type nouns (Hick, Nerd, Slavedriver, Tease) or as attribute nouns (Integrity, Mettle); certainly more studies that include attributes represented in nonadjectival forms are needed. In addition, most lexical studies to date have relied exclusively on self-descriptions, a methodology whose use should be supplemented with descrip- tions by knowledgeable informants.

Another possible limitation of current lexical studies is that they have focused on the attributes of individuals, and few have exam- ined the attributes of groups or organizations (Slaughter, Zickar, Highhouse, & Mohr, 2001). Given the long history of studies of or- ganizational climate (Astin & Holland, 1961; Ellsworth & Maroney, 1972; Moos, 1972; Wolf, 1966), it would be extremely instructive to examine the structure of interorganizational differences using a comprehensive set of lexical stimuli. Is there something akin to the Big Five or other lexical structures when we study descriptions of groups rather than persons? Future research may provide an answer. One might wonder why the factor structures found in lexical studies are so important, given that the currently dominant for- mats for personality assessment are inventories containing phrase- or sentence-length items. One huge advantage of lexical studies is that the personality-descriptive lexicon constitutes a far more bounded and ﬁnite population than the set of all possible ques- tionnaire items, and therefore one can reasonably argue that a lex-
