---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1f98034f1893e001db66c4373095496c2461778d
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 334 PERSONALITY AND WORK

are important because they inﬂuence both which traits will be ex- pressed and how they will be expressed.

To determine which set of personality traits and behavioral cri- teria is particularly important in a speciﬁc job, it is apparent today that we need to consider the situation thoroughly. Although job analysts have long assessed situational attributes of the job, many of the authors in this book call for a different approach. For ex- ample, Ford and Oswald (Chapter Nine) discuss the role of the types of contexts in which the learner is placed. Thus, training re- searchers need to consider such situational characteristics as level of supervisory and peer support, the role of a positive work climate, and the strength of the situation (referred to as situational press). However, they also emphasize the dynamic nature of the situation in recognizing that people can choose whether to attend training or what type of training to attend. They also propose a new per- spective on the viability of accounting for person-by-situation ef- fects. Furthermore, in Chapter Seven, Stewart demonstrates that one can also consider a work group as a dynamic context, in that members of the group exert change on the situation over time. The chapters in this book highlight the necessity of thinking about a person’s traits and their effects within contexts that are not sta- tic and that can even be changed because a person with those traits is in situations that are rapidly changing. That is, the situation in- ﬂuences a person’s behavior, but people also inﬂuence situations. Given the importance of the situation for understanding the role of personality on work-related outcomes, how can we charac- terize situational variables to obtain consistency across studies? In Chapter Three, Barrick et al. approach the development of a tax- onomy of situational features by focusing on one key aspect of work: the social setting. They argue that people spend consider- able time in social situations, and how effectively we navigate these settings has considerable impact on our success and well-being. Furthermore, personality traits are likely to be important predic- tors of how we function in social settings (Barrick, Stewart, Neu- bert, & Mount, 1998). Based on this reasoning, there seems to be considerable value in examining whether the person’s “personal- ity” interacts with how work is coordinated and controlled, when predicting behavior. Another approach, advocated by Hough in Chapter Eleven, suggests that Holland’s RIASEC (Realistic, Inves-
