---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f613865d1a96665b04bb45e3222d130a3e82e654
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# xii FOREWORD

in work behavior. Research on the nature of personality and the role of dispositional constructs in explaining a variety of work be- havior exploded in the early 1990s. The renewed interest in this area began with the meta-analytic demonstration by Barrick and Mount (1991) that there are generalizable relationships between some personality constructs and work performance and the grow- ing consensus among many personality researchers (Digman, 1990) that the myriad of personality measures and empirical stud- ies on the structure of personality suggested that ﬁve major per- sonality constructs represent the personality domain well. This book provides a review of some of this research and then goes well beyond a reexamination of these issues to explore the process by which personality exerts its inﬂuence on work outcomes. Also con- sidered is a much wider array of work behavior (including con- textual performance, counterproductive behavior, retaliatory behavior, retention, and learning) than simply performance of one’s assigned work role. This book brings together basic person- ality researchers and those interested in applications of personal- ity in the work context, one of the major goals of the series since its inception.

In Chapter One, Saucier and Goldberg provide a deﬁnition of personality, examine evidence on the structure of personality at- tributes, and raise issues about the adequacy of the Big Five model on several important criteria. Lucas and Diener next explore the evidence for, and the importance of, happiness variables (or satis- faction, to use a more common term in the I/O literature) as func- tional determinants of the choices people make and the behaviors in which they engage. They provide the quite reasonable, but rarely explored, hypothesis that the role of happiness in explain- ing worker behavior and productivity is dependent on the behav- iors that are important and examined. Chapter Three, by Barrick, Mitchell, and Stewart, also reﬂects the theme that situational and motivational variables inﬂuence the relationship between person- ality and work behavior. Chapters Four (by Johnson), Five (by Weiss and Kurek), and Six (by Cullen and Sackett) explore in de- tail aspects of the process model of the personality-performance relationship. In Chapter Seven, Stewart makes a strong case that personality–work behavior relationships can be understood only by examining cross-level (individual, team, organization) effects.
