# 340 PERSONALITY AND WORK

level because more proximal levels are being connected. Stewart (Chapter Seven) illustrates this by providing a good rationale for cross-level linkages between personality and performance at the individual and group levels. Similarly, Day and Kilduff (Chapter Eight) discuss the complexity of considerations at the dyadic level that underlies social network analysis. It may thus be more fruitful to focus research resources toward understanding the role of per- sonality in predicting dyadic or group-level phenomena than organizational-level outcomes.

Multilevel theories must also consider how effects are mani- fested over time (Kozlowski & Klein, 2000). The effects of individ- ual personality on dyadic, group-level, and organizational outcomes are not likely to occur quickly. For example, a change in the per- sonality composition of a team may not have immediate effects on team coordination, productivity, or other group-level outcomes but may have considerable long-term effects on these same variables. One implication for many of the issues presented in this book is that future research must examine the role of personality over long time periods. For example, research in groups or organizations must allow sufﬁcient time to pass so that the effects of personality are allowed to emerge. This may mean that the study of personal- ity and dyadic or group-level or organizational-level phenomena necessitates longitudinal or time-series designs.

Kozlowski and Klein (2000) noted the importance of a sam- pling strategy that allows for between-unit variability at all relevant levels of the model if one wishes to test a multilevel theory ade- quately. Thus, assessing the role of team personality or organiza- tional personality requires sampling to ensure variability across the range of personality combinations that one would expect at that level. Furthermore, it suggests that sampling for variability in situ- ational determinants of personality (such as cooperative or com- petitive demands) is also of importance.

In conclusion, several of the chapters in this book recognize that we must expand our theories of personality and work out- comes to be truly multilevel theories. This will include opera- tionalizing concepts at multiple levels, specifying emergent processes, and hypothesizing cross-level relationships. In short, fu- ture research on personality and work must take a multilevel focus.