# 14 PERSONALITY AND WORK

However, it is possible that going to the facet level may require giv- ing up some degree of cross-cultural replicability.

Broad factors have a number of limitations. They are com- posed of many variables, and this creates a degree of ambiguity. As Block (1995) and John (1990) have noted, investigators differ in the psychological meaning that they give to each of the Big Five factors (see Johnson & Ostendorf, 1993, for one plausible account of the reasons for this problem). For example, Extraversion can be thought of as a composite of Sociability, Assertiveness, and Positive Emotionality (as well as other related constructs), but some see So- ciability as more central (Costa & McCrae, 1992), others see As- sertiveness as more central (Goldberg, 1993b; Peabody, 1987), and still others see Positive Emotionality as more central (Watson & Clark, 1997). Although the factors are usually labeled with a single term, plumbing the psychological meaning of a broad factor like one of the Big Five is a cognitive task of considerable complexity. This is because a broad factor is not so much one thing as a col- lection of many things that have something in common. It is easy to ignore the diverse character of the variables contained within a broad factor. A better way to understand each factor might be to characterize its crucial subcomponents, which, although empiri- cally interrelated, are conceptually distinct.

Indeed, identiﬁcation of speciﬁc subcomponents can help to clarify the conceptualization of the broader factors (Briggs, 1989). Because broad factors blend together subcomponents that might be distinguished from one another, some of the ﬁner features of personality description are lost when making only a few broad dis- tinctions. Such ﬁner features appear to reﬂect genetic sources of variation beyond those bearing on the broad-level factors (Jang, McCrae, Angleitner, Riemann, & Livesley, 1998). And a represen- tation of personality structure that makes the ﬁner features explicit potentially offers higher precision and accuracy (or “ﬁdelity”) in per- sonality description. When categories are narrower, the exemplars for each are more similar, enhancing diagnostic value for speciﬁc instances (John, Hampson, & Goldberg, 1991). Broad-bandwidth constructs, on the other hand, sacriﬁce ﬁdelity to gain efﬁciency. A structural representation combining both broader and nar- rower constructs may be an optimal compromise. The broader- bandwidth level offers higher efﬁciency (parsimony), whereas the