---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 89be647181324a8238dce09bda78a700b69da90f
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# PERSONALITY AND JOB PERFORMANCE 111

inﬂuence should be less than what would be expected for techni- cal proﬁciency. The dominant predictor in this case would be so- ciability, which should directly inﬂuence social knowledge, social skill, social habits, and some aspects of motivation (for example, prosocial motives, self-efﬁcacy, goal commitment).

It is important to keep in mind the numerous potential mod- erators that can inﬂuence the extent to which personality predicts performance. Examples of moderator variables are situational strength (Beaty, Cleveland, & Murphy, 2001), occupation (Barrick et al., 2001), time on job (Helmreich, Sawin, & Carsrud, 1986), and autonomy (Gellatly & Irving, 2001). Some studies have found an interaction between personality and ability in predicting per- formance (Wright, Kacmar, McMahan, & Deleeuw, 1995), although most recent studies have shown no interaction (Mount, Barrick, & Strauss, 1999; Sackett, Gruys, & Ellingson, 1998). Multiple per- sonality traits may also interact to inﬂuence performance. For ex- ample, Witt, Burke, Barrick, and Mount (2002) found a signiﬁcant interaction between Conscientiousness and Agreeableness in ﬁve samples of employees in occupations characterized by cooperative interactions with others.

The purpose of this model is to identify the constructs through which personality variables work to inﬂuence performance on spe- ciﬁc performance dimensions. It can be used to choose appropriate personality predictors for a given criterion construct. The strength of the relationship between the predictor and the criterion de- pends on (1) the number of direct determinants of the criterion to which the predictor is related, (2) the strength of the relationship between the predictor and each direct determinant, (3) the strength of the relationship between each direct determinant and the criterion, and (4) the presence of relevant moderators. Ability variables should be most predictive for task performance dimen- sions because of their strong relationships with task knowledge, task skill, and task habits and the strong relationships between these direct determinants and task performance. Personality vari- ables should also contribute, but to a lesser degree because of their strong relationships with motivation but weaker relationships with task knowledge, task skill, and task habits. Personality variables should be most predictive when predicting citizenship perfor- mance because of their strong relationships with motivation and citizenship knowledge, skill, and habits. Ability variables should be
