---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 286c531031834a2bcac136e2739673fd9ff74be2
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 192 PERSONALITY AND WORK

through which individual-level characteristics combine to create a team-level trait.

At the individual level, genes combine through three different effects (Rowe, 1994). First, dominance takes place when the pres- ence or absence of a speciﬁc gene combination determines the manifestation of the trait. For teams, this effect suggests that the team-level trait (phenotype) is dependent on the inclusion, or ex- clusion, of at least one member who possesses (or does not pos- sess) the individual characteristic. Second, an additive process occurs when gene combinations representing high trait expres- sions substitute linearly for gene combinations associated with lower trait expressions. Applied to the team level, this additive ef- fect suggests that a team-level trait (phenotype) is determined by the extent to which team members in aggregate possess that trait. Finally, epistasis occurs when the combination of genes related to a particular trait depends on the genes related to a different trait. At the team level, epistasis may be exhibited when the manner in which individual team member traits combine to create a certain team-level trait depends on some other characteristic of the team. For instance, if a team has one member high on openness and one low on openness, the team-level openness trait may depend on the extent to which the two team members are extraverted.

The application of these gene effects is similar to methods al- ready adopted to capture team-level personality. Taking more of a nurture perspective to personality formation, Barrick et al. (1998) used Steiner’s taxonomy of tasks (1972) as a basis for choosing a method to aggregate individual traits into team-level constructs. We suggested that trait formation is an averaging process when teams engage in additive tasks, making the mean of the individual trait scores an appropriate form of aggregation. The desirable per- sonality traits of each member form a collective resource pool. For compensatory tasks, where outcomes are the product of an aver- aging of diverse inputs, team traits are dependent on the distribu- tion of individual traits. The variance of the individual trait measure is thus a useful form of aggregation. Conjunctive tasks re- quire inputs from each member of a group, suggesting that the in- clusion of an individual with a low score on a desirable trait may adversely affect team performance. The lowest individual trait score can thus be used as an indicator of the team-level trait. In
