# 336 PERSONALITY AND WORK

those by Barrick et al. (Chapter Three) and Johnson (Chapter Four). However, as these authors and others make clear, overall performance is not the only important outcome or set of behav- iors. For instance, Lucas and Diener (Chapter Two) focus on worker happiness, Weiss and Kurek (Chapter Five) highlight af- fective experiences, Cullen and Sackett (Chapter Six) illustrate the importance of counterproductive workplace behavior, and Ford and Oswald (Chapter Nine) discuss the learning and training per- formance of the dynamic learner.

This book also goes beyond these innovative ways of thinking about more traditional outcomes by examining a number of other criteria that are also worthy of consideration. For example, Ryan and Kristof-Brown (Chapter Ten) emphasize the nature and importance of the ﬁt between individuals and the job, group, or organization, while Stewart (Chapter Seven) focuses on the fundamental role of personality in work team outcomes. Day and Kilduff (Chapter Eight) also underscore the importance of social networks and en- courage researchers to examine the individual’s skill in monitor- ing and managing relationships in groups and organizations. Johnson (Chapter Four) and Hough (Chapter Eleven) identify other fundamentally important behavioral variables at work, in- cluding career success, job and life satisfaction, safety, conﬂict at- tributions, workplace aggression, leadership, adaptive performance, and adaptability to change.

In short, development and evaluation of models emphasizing behavioral criteria will provide an essential step toward a greater scientiﬁc understanding about how personality inﬂuences success at work. We believe that valid measurement of behaviors that lead to or detract from important organizational outcomes will signiﬁ- cantly enhance the contributions that personality research can make to the broader ﬁeld of psychology. Furthermore, clearly iden- tifying and deﬁning the outcomes we are trying to predict should enable us to make better selection decisions. For example, Cullen and Sackett (Chapter Six) explicate the covariance structure of counterproductive work behaviors and their relations to organiza- tional citizenship behaviors and contextual performance; knowing how speciﬁc outcomes we are interested in relate to one another will enable a clearer understanding of personality’s inﬂuence.