# A General Discussion of Affect Processes

Our discussion of affect generation processes is intentionally global and overly general. Researchers on emotions have not settled on one perspective for understanding how emotions are elicited (Weiss, 2002a). Researchers on moods have hardly addressed the issue at all. Our discussion in this and the next section follows the general outline of a cognitive appraisal approach. Researchers pre- ferring another perspective may therefore disagree with the par- ticulars of these discussions. We believe that they will not disagree with the general message, however.

Emotions are elicited by events. Although most emotion theo- ries use these events as the starting point for emotion generation, the events we experience are not entirely externally caused or ran- dom. We make decisions that expose us to certain events. Although there are certainly events that are beyond our control, we create our own environments in which we have a greater tendency to experi- ence certain types of events. Some events are thrust on us. Others are partly our own creation. Still, emotions are reactions to events. Not all events culminate in emotional responses. Cognitive ap- praisal theorists argue that events are appraised or evaluated along a number of dimensions, and these appraisals are the proximal cause of emotional responses (Smith & Kirby, 2001). These ap- praisal theories generally posit two types of appraisals in emotion generation. Primary appraisal is usually seen as an assessment of “concern relevance.” Is this thing that has happened of relevance to my goals (proximal or distal) and values? As a result of the ﬁrst appraisal process, both the valence and intensity of the emotion are determined (Lazarus, 1991). If it is of relevance and beneﬁcial for one’s goals and well-being, the valence of the emotion will be positive. If it hinders attainment of one’s goals, the emotion will be negative. The more important the goal is, the more intense the emotion is. As Weiss and Cropanzano (1996) noted, people will be focusing on different aspects of their goal hierarchies at any par- ticular time. This focus will inﬂuence the judgments made re- garding the relevance and importance of the event to one’s goals. An event that helps an individual achieve an important goal will produce a strong, positive emotion.