data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0290.md, before:

# 90 PERSONALITY AND WORK

thing under the general label of citizenship performance (Borman & Penner, 2001; Coleman & Borman, 2000).

Conﬁrmatory factor analyses have provided evidence for the dis- tinction between task and citizenship performance (Conway, 1996; Johnson, 2001). Furthermore, research has shown that both task performance and citizenship performance are taken into consid- eration when supervisors evaluate others’ performance (Conway, 1999; Johnson, 2001; Motowidlo & Van Scotter, 1994; Van Scotter & Motowidlo, 1996). Some research also shows that task perfor- mance is better predicted by ability and experience, and citizenship performance is better predicted by personality variables (Borman, Penner, Allen, & Motowidlo, 2001; Hurtz & Donovan, 2000).

The dimensionality of citizenship performance is muddled, with different authors offering different numbers of dimensions with dif- ferent labels (Borman & Motowidlo, 1993; LePine, Erez, & John- son, 2002; Organ, 1988; Podsakoff, MacKenzie, Paine, & Bachrach, 2000). In an attempt to clarify the latent structure of citizenship performance, Coleman and Borman (2000) identiﬁed twenty- seven citizenship performance behaviors based on all proposed models and discussions presented in the literature. The behaviors were sorted by forty-four I/O psychologists, and the similarity data were analyzed using factor analysis, multidimensional scaling, and cluster analysis. The authors rationally combined the results of the separate analyses into a single integrated model representing three categories of behavior. Borman, Buck et al. (2001) reﬁned this taxonomy on the basis of a sort of approximately twenty- three hundred examples of citizenship performance taken from twenty-two studies, giving the categories the following labels and explanations:

Personal support: Behaviors beneﬁting individuals in the organiza- tion; includes helping, motivating, cooperating with, and show- ing consideration of others

Organizational support: Behaviors beneﬁting the organization; in- cludes representing the organization favorably, showing loyalty, and complying with organizational rules and procedures Conscientious initiative: Behaviors beneﬁting the job or task; includes persisting with extra effort to complete tasks, taking initiative, and engaging in self-development activities (Borman, Penner et al., 2001).

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0290.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c34b4bbc5fc61527e8790913379bd262a9474070
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# Citizenship Performance

Borman and Motowidlo (1993) proposed a model of performance with two components at the highest-level: task performance and contextual performance. Task performance consists of activities that (1) directly transform raw materials into the goods and ser- vices produced by the organization or (2) service and maintain the technical core by replenishing supplies, distributing products, and providing planning, coordination, supervising, and staff functions that allow for efﬁcient functioning of the organization (Motowidlo, Borman, & Schmit, 1997). Contextual performance consists of ac- tivities that support the broader environment in which the tech- nical core must function, including behaviors such as volunteering for tasks not formally part of the job, demonstrating effort, help- ing and cooperating with others, following organizational rules and procedures, and supporting organizational objectives (Borman & Motowidlo, 1993).

Contextual performance is similar in deﬁnition to Organ’s (1988) organizational citizenship behavior (OCB), as well as other concepts such as prosocial organizational behavior (Brief & Moto- widlo, 1986), extra-role behavior (Van Dyne, Cummings, & Parks, 1995), and organizational spontaneity (George & Jones, 1997). The primary difference between the deﬁnitions of OCB and contextual performance is that OCB was deﬁned as extra-role, discretionary, and not formally recognized or rewarded by the organization. Organ (1997) recognized the lack of clarity this brought to the construct and reﬁned the deﬁnition to make it more or less syn- onymous with contextual performance. Contextual performance, OCB, and related concepts are now often referred to as the same
