## DISPOSITIONAL INFLUENCES ON AFFECTIVE EXPERIENCES AT WORK 131

son. Such an activity is inherently inconsistent. This is not to say that stable characteristics are not relevant to affect processes. How- ever, if we are to go beyond predicting affective aggregates, using stable characteristics to explain affective experiences as they are experienced, that is, varying over time, we must focus on person- ality constructs that interact with varying environmental events. We must focus on reactivity constructs, not tendencies to display cer- tain levels of affect across situations, and study these reactivity con- structs as they interact with changing events. We will discuss here various constructs that predict differences in the way people re- spond to stimuli. We will also say that a search for these constructs must begin with an examination of the processes that generate emotional states at particular times.

The 1990s saw a resurgence of interest in trait theories of per- sonality, in both I/O and other areas of psychology, stimulated by research done within the Big Five approach. This reinvigoration of trait psychology was followed by a reinvigoration of critiques of dispositional personality generally (Mischel & Shoda, 1995, 1998; Pervin, 1994) and the Big Five in particular (Block, 1995). We do not revisit these issues here. However, we believe the position that Mischel and Shoda described is of great relevance for reconciling the conceptual disconnect we have been referring to.

Mischel and Shoda (1995, 1998) have described what they see as two traditions in personality psychology. One, the behavioral dis- position tradition, has sought to create personality constructs that operationalize consistencies in behaviors over time. These dispo- sitions or traits predispose people to behave in a certain way across time and situations. Mischel and Shoda argue that researchers within this tradition acknowledge that cross-situational consistency is generally low but not zero. They then focus on that part of the total variance that represents the stability component and seek to explain individual differences in this portion of the variance. In so doing, they treat the within-person variance, which can be quite substantial, as error. Clearly, this is the approach that best charac- terizes current I/O research on personality and affect. The alter- native approach, the mediational process approach, treats the within-person variance as real and to be explained, not thrown away. This approach argues that the role of personality is not to be found by dispositionalizing the behavioral (or affective) expression