---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ee0c73cb5a3eb3ca9c889956f0544700bceffa8c
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## PERSONALITY IN PERSON-ORGANIZATION FIT RESEARCH 273

organization where a large portion of pay is at risk may put more effort into performing well so that his or her pay will be more se- cure. A person with a high need for achievement working in a ﬂat organization may learn to value lateral moves rather than just pro- motions. A different but also favorable consequence is that the per- ception of misﬁt may lead the individual to become more self-aware and seek other employment options, where his or her needs would be better fulﬁlled. Research has indicated that many people have in- accurate self-views (see Mabe & West, 1982, for a review), and incon- sistent information can lead to questioning one’s self-perceptions (Dilto & Lopez, 1992). Thus, misﬁt may afford an opportunity for development.

When personality-based PO ﬁt is assessed as the congruence between individuals and other members of the organization (sup- plementary ﬁt), somewhat different outcomes may be expected. The PO ﬁt literature generally discusses congruence (on values or personality) as having only positive consequences for the individ- ual. While we would agree with this in terms of affective outcomes (satisfaction), it may be that good ﬁt can have negative conse- quences for individual productivity depending on the type of per- formance required and the personality traits being considered. If performance involves problem solving or decision making, good ﬁt may suppress content-related conﬂict, which is necessary for high-quality decisions (Chatman, 1989). Therefore, when perfor- mance requires creativity or problem solving, poor PO personality ﬁt may offer an advantage. The type of personality trait also is likely to determine the relationship between ﬁt and productivity. For ex- ample, an individual low in conscientiousness in an environment with little emphasis on organization and details may be quite sat- isﬁed, but his or her lack of persistence is likely to lead to a low- ered level of productivity than someone who was a misﬁt because of higher conscientiousness. This example highlights the fact that the main effects for personality on performance should not be ig- nored when considering the effects of personality-based PO ﬁt on outcomes.

Furthermore, we propose that the lack of personality congru- ence with others in the organization could offer potential advan- tages for people. In the PV ﬁt area, Holland’s theory suggests a developmental value to bad ﬁt (Holland, 1985), with individuals
