data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0748.md, before:

# UNDERSTANDING THE DYNAMIC LEARNER 253

both the learning goals and self-regulation in achieving those goals in order to “manage their learning and make it more ﬂexible so they can achieve whatever seems most appropriate in each situation” (p. 570).

As a ﬁnal example, Harackiewicz, Barron, Carter, Lehto, and Elliot (1997) examined the short- and long-term consequences of student achievement goals during college. Consistent with a multiple-goal perspective, both mastery and performance goals had positive and complementary effects on different measures of academic success. In particular, they found that mastery goals in the short run predicted interest in an introduction to psychology course, and in the long run they predicted the number of subsequent psychology courses students enrolled in. Performance goals pre- dicted both short- and long-term academic performance.

These three studies show the need to consider multiple goals within training research. The studies also are consistent with calls by Snow (1992) to understand how constructs work together in the light of learning outcomes, as opposed to studying a number of learning and motivational constructs in isolation from one another. In particular, the multiple-goal idea implies that a single interven- tion to induce a mastery orientation may not always be appropriate or realistic. Instead, we need a better understanding about motiva- tional traits such as goal orientation and a focus on what combi- nation of interventions may be needed to create an effective and longer-lasting learning state.

The idea of multiple pathways can certainly be applied to other personality traits that have relevance for learning beyond goal ori- entation. For example, training research indicates that high inter- nal locus-of-control individuals tend to be more motivated to learn and learn more than those low on internal locus of control or high on external locus of control. Research is needed that goes beyond these simple effects to address the question of when or under what conditions external locus of control is adaptive rather than mal- adaptive. In addition, investigators can begin to examine the multi- ple pathways that lead some externals to positive learning outcomes. Finally, prior to recommending appropriate interventions to create a learning state such as state mastery orientation, investiga- tors might want to focus more attention on affecting learning processes. For example, efforts could be directed toward having

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0748.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: dd13f6aa8eacdb4df2401cfc313b8aee2e0a0351
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 252 PERSONALITY AND WORK

complex picture of the learner than the somewhat static view of a mastery goal orientation as being “better” than a performance goal orientation in terms of motivation, strategy use, and performance outcomes. For example, in some situations, performance goals may be adaptive—or at least not maladaptive. There may be learning objectives that are not intrinsically motivating to most individuals, even to those who tend to be mastery oriented in other situations, where individuals with a high performance goal orientation may strive to perform well. Or in some dynamic situations, staying with a mastery goal rather than moving to more of a performance goal over time may not be beneﬁcial to continued improvement. From a multiple pathways perspective, performance-oriented learners may feel less interest and have more anxiety and more trouble dealing with failure, employ different strategies to deal with fail- ure than a mastery-oriented person would, and yet still reach the same level of outcomes. This calls for going beyond between-subjects designs to consider examining multiple goals for individuals and their interactions across different settings or situations.

Recent studies have found support for taking a multiple goal perspective. For example, Pintrich (2000) examined goal orienta- tion and changes in motivation, affect, strategy use, and perfor- mance across three waves of data collected from 150 eighth and ninth graders in math classes. In general, he found that the process measures such as self-efﬁcacy, task value, and positive affect de- clined over time. More central to a perspective of multiple goals, he found that performance approach goals, when coupled with mastery goals, were just as adaptive as mastery goals alone. He also found that the two types of goal orientation had differential rela- tionships over time to psychological processes such as positive af- fect, the use of self-handicapping strategies, and perceived task value.

Riveiro, Cabanach, and Arias (2001) conducted a study of 595 college students. They examined relationships between goal orien- tation and the use of various types of cognitive, self-regulatory, and motivational strategies. They found that from a multiple-goals per- spective, students who developed the most positive self-regulatory strategies were those who not only were concerned about mastery but also had a desire to avoid being judged negatively by others. This outcome highlights the importance of engaging learners in
