# 6 PERSONALITY AND WORK

be interesting in their own way, but models that transfer well across populations, and thus across languages and sociocultural settings, are more congruent with the scientiﬁc ideals of replicability and generalizability.

If we take cross-cultural generalizability as a criterion for a good taxonomic structure, we can apply this criterion in a lenient or a stringent way. The lenient way is to export a set of variables (most often, those represented in a single personality inventory) for use in other populations and then examine whether these pre- selected variables (after translation, if necessary) generate the same factor structure in each new language or culture. If the scales in a personality inventory generate similar factors across populations, one might argue that the structure is widely gener- alizable, as McCrae and Costa (1997) have done with respect to their revised NEO Personality Inventory (Costa & McCrae, 1992). However, this is not a very demanding test. It is not sufﬁcient to show that when personality measures in a new language are made to conform to the procrustean speciﬁcations of one model, that model can be recovered. There may be a large number of possi- ble models that are equally exportable and maintain their factor structures across many populations.

A more challenging test of generalizability is to identify the most salient and important personality concepts within each lin- guistic and cultural context, derive an indigenous factor structure from those variables, and then examine the extent to which this new structure corresponds to any previously proposed models. A model that could meet this test in any language would have great psychological import; it could be considered far more ubiquitous and universal than a structure that simply met the less demanding imposed test (that is, showed a high degree of translatability).

The lexical approach involves such an indigenous research strategy. Analyses are carried out separately within each language, using a representative set of native language descriptors, rather than importing selections of variables from other languages (for example, English). The hope is that the ﬁndings from these lexi- cal studies will converge on a replicable pattern such that most lan- guages will reﬂect its imprint. An analogous, and possibly universal, pattern has been identiﬁed in studies of color words across lexi- cons (Kay & McDaniel, 1978), corresponding to the genetics and neurobiology of color perception.