# 164 PERSONALITY AND WORK

commonly used item format in overt integrity tests. The Ryan and Sackett (1987) integrity instrument contains agree-disagree items such as, “Most of my friends have taken a little money or mer- chandise from their employer,” “Just about everyone has shoplifted something,” and “Most people cheat on their income tax.” A fac- tor analysis of one widely used integrity test, the London House Personnel Selection Inventory, identiﬁes a normative beliefs factor as one of four factors underlying overall test scores (Harris & Sack- ett, 1987). Given that such items contribute substantially to in- tegrity test scores and given the relationship between integrity test scores and Conscientiousness, Agreeableness, and Emotional Sta- bility, it is likely that there is indeed a link between personality and normative beliefs about CWBs.

Motivation to Comply with Perceived Norms About CWBs Personality traits can also affect the subjective norm component of the behavioral intention equation by inﬂuencing our motivation to comply with workplace norms. In our view, the two traits likely to affect motivation to comply with workplace norms are the “du- tifulness” facet of Conscientiousness and the “compliance” facet of Agreeableness. Individuals who are dutiful are characterized by a tendency to adhere strictly to their ethical principles and fulﬁll their moral obligations (Costa & McCrae, 1992). As such, they are likely to be motivated to comply with the normative behavioral standards that have been set in the workplace. In contrast, indi- viduals who are not dutiful do not take these obligations very seri- ously and may thereby be less likely to care whether they are obeying workplace norms. In a similar vein, individuals low on compliance are characterized by a tendency to be aggressive and a preference to compete rather than cooperate (Costa & McCrae, 1992). Such individuals may simply not be motivated, by virtue of their low levels of compliance, to observe the wishes of those in charge of the workplace.

If the traits of dutifulness and compliance do affect motivation to comply with workplace norms, then these traits directly affect the subjective norm component of the behavioral intention equa- tion. Speciﬁcally, these traits weaken the subjective norm compo- nent. Thus, holding attitude toward showing up late constant, low levels of compliance and dutifulness should increase the likelihood an individual will engage in a given counterproductive behavior.