data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0158.md, before:

# THE HAPPY WORKER 37

more (see, for example, Gouaux, 1971; Lyubomirsky & Tucker, 1998; Mayer, Mamberg, & Volanth, 1988), resulting in happy indi- viduals’ seeking out social contact and being more sensitive and at- tentive to those with whom they interact (Cunningham, 1988a; Isen, 1970). Second, people like happy people better than they like unhappy people (Diener & Fujita, 1995; Harker & Keltner, 2001; King & Napa, 1998), making it more likely that happy people will experience positive social relationships. Finally, the signs of hap- piness, laughter and smiling, indicate that one is friendly and open, and this signal invites others to become engaged.

In addition to this general tendency for happy people to be more socially engaged than unhappy people, a number of more speciﬁc effects of happiness lead to positive social interactions, and these effects have particularly important implications for happi- ness at work. For example, happy people appear to be more help- ful and altruistic than unhappy people. This effect has been found in studies of dispositional affect as well as experimentally induced affect, and it has been found using a variety of techniques for ma- nipulating mood and a variety of measures of helpfulness and al- truism (see Diener et al., 2001, for a review). Carlson, Charlin, and Miller (1988) conducted a meta-analysis of studies examining the relation between positive mood and helping behavior and found evidence supporting four potential mechanisms underlying the re- lation. First, they suggested that a person who feels happy also feels efﬁcacious and resource laden, and therefore is likely to share those resources with others. Second, they found evidence that helping behavior helps to prolong positive moods. Third, there was evidence that helping behavior is a by-product of other effects of pleasant moods, such as increased liking for others. And ﬁnally, they suggested that pleasant moods may cause people to feel a greater sense of interdependence and cooperation with others.

The suggestion of Carlson et al. (1988) that helping behaviors result from increased feelings of cooperation indicates that coop- eration itself may be an additional beneﬁt of pleasant affect. Carnevale and Isen (1986), for example, showed that people are more cooperative after experiencing a pleasant mood induction. Hertel, Neuhof, Theuer, and Kerr (2000) questioned the general- izability of this ﬁnding, however, and suggested that Carnevale and Isen’s interpretation of participants’ behavior as cooperative was

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0158.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 88ac0586326dcda381d410372d7edc14ef59e5d8
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## Social Relationships, Cooperation, and Helping Behavior

Perhaps the most robust ﬁnding in the study of subjective well-being is that affect and satisfaction are moderately to strongly correlated with a variety of social variables. For example, researchers have re- peatedly shown that the personality trait of extraversion (which re- ﬂects the degree to which people enjoy and feel comfortable in social situations) is strongly correlated with subjective well-being. Lucas and Fujita (2000) showed that the meta-analytically derived average correlation between extraversion and positive affect is .37, that this correlation often rises to .80 when multiple measures of extraversion and pleasant affect are used to model the relation, and that the relation is not due to methodological artifacts such as response sets or item overlap in extraversion and pleasant affect scales. Lucas, Diener, Grob, Suh, and Shao (2000) showed that the relation is robust and consistent across a variety of cultures. Other researchers have shown that it is not just feelings of sociability that are related to well-being. Social activity itself is correlated with pos- itive affect, both between persons and within persons over time (Clark & Watson, 1988; Lucas, 2000; Okun, Stock, Haring, & Wit- ter, 1984).

One interpretation of these ﬁndings is that social activity and personality traits that promote social activity cause happiness and well-being. However, an equally plausible alternative—and one with an increasing amount of empirical support—is that positive affect actually causes people to engage in and enjoy social contact. For example, Isen (1970) and Cunningham (1988a) found that peo- ple who experienced a positive mood induction were more likely than those who did not to engage in social contact (including ini- tiating conversation and disclosing personal information). Diener, Lyubomirsky, and King (2001) suggested at least three reasons that positive affect would foster positive interpersonal relationships. First, positive affect appears to make people like other people
