# How Do Traits Form at the Team Level?

A theoretical perspective for answering the question of where team traits come from can be found in individual-level trait theory. Re- search has found individual traits to be the result of two forces: ge- netics and environment (Plomin & Daniels, 1987). This analogy suggests the need to identify both nature and nurture effects at the team level.

The nurture analogue at the team level is relatively easy: a team’s external inﬂuences should inﬂuence the team similarly to how an individual’s surroundings inﬂuence that person. To date, most of the research related to external inﬂuences on team trait development has focused on the tasks that a team performs. Be- cause genes are the raw material of individuals, a useful analogue to a gene is the individual. This analogue cannot, however, be di- rectly applied to the team level, because teams can change their members but people cannot to date change their genes. Never- theless, thinking of members as genes does provide some poten- tial insight into how team personality forms and cross-level relationships between the concept of personality at individual and team levels.

Because individuals at the team level are analogous to genes at the individual level, theoretical models of the process through which genes combine to inﬂuence an individual’s traits can be helpful for understanding how individual characteristics combine to form a team’s traits. Speciﬁc gene combinations are referred to as genotypes. The expressed trait is referred to as a phenotype. A genotype thus represents the actual genes that a person possesses, and the phenotype is the trait that others observe. Applying ge- netic concepts to the team level suggests that the genotype is de- ﬁned by a summary of the characteristics of the individuals. The phenotype is more difﬁcult to describe and depends on the process