---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b927bcf898126d011c914b2da39d5289f4d7c3ed
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 206 PERSONALITY AND WORK

Our purpose is to examine the theory and research pertaining to individual differences in personality that shape the development and maintenance of the kinds of network structures that allow more (or less) access to vital social resources. We also consider the conﬁguration of these relationships, the inﬂuence of individual personality on network conﬁgurations in organizations, and the structural constraints imposed on certain network conﬁgurations. Historically, relationships tend to be viewed as mainly dyadic in nature (Graen & Scandura, 1987). A broader perspective, how- ever, considers that every relationship constitutes a system. Specif- ically, relationships are open systems that are nested in a larger social environment (Reis, Collins, & Berscheid, 2000). These sys- tems are simultaneously evolving and inﬂuencing each other over time. For example, two people in a romantic relationship are con- nected to many other people in the larger social environment, but only some of these other people are likely to have accurate per- ceptions of, or the ability to exercise inﬂuence on, the state and fate of the couple’s relationship (Agnew, Loving, & Drigotas, 2001). The nature of the dyadic relationship may change signiﬁcantly as the dyad’s embeddedness in the larger social network changes. For example, the extent to which a married couple maintains tradi- tional versus egalitarian spousal roles may depend not just on the views held by the couple but also on the extent to which the pre- marriage network ties of the husband and wife (to friends and fe- male relatives, respectively) are maintained (Bott, 1957).

Relationships vary in terms of strength, reciprocity, and type. Re- lationship quality is an important but overlooked aspect of the social resources available in a network (Krackhardt, 1999). In particular, some working relationships stabilize at a relatively superﬁcial level of exchange, others at rather deep levels of mutuality (Gabarro, 1987). Personality inﬂuences both the content and the structure of social networks in work settings, one relationship at a time. Our focus is on one particular set of dispositional motives shown to be relevant for understanding how individuals shape their social worlds: those associated with the construct of self-monitoring personality (Snyder, 1974, 1987).

Why do people form and maintain relationships? The answers to this purportedly obvious question are not so simple. There are multiple possible motives for every relationship that is formed, sus-
