---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 40c881d506c5b51c5284b5ccd68051660655f74c
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 66 PERSONALITY AND WORK

competence and to build self-esteem (Stewart & Barrick, in press). We categorize the goals or personal strivings associated with task orientation as representing Accomplishment Striving.

Accomplishment Striving reﬂects an individual’s intention to accomplish work tasks and is expected to be characterized by high task motivation. Behaviorally, Accomplishment Striving is likely to be expressed in a way that laypeople would call “work motivation”; these employees are likely to exert considerable task effort and maintain that effort over an extended period of time. We believe that Accomplishment Striving is cognitively represented and as- sessable as intentions. It differs from typical perceptions of moti- vation, however, as it relates to a generalized, individual difference measure representing intentions to exert effort and work hard. We believe it is likely caused by many determinants, including the per- son’s personality traits and environmental features such as in- structing the person to try harder, offering incentives to perform well, or making the task meaningful or difﬁcult.

The results of Sheldon et al. (2001) also underscore that social interactions at work, or relatedness, is a fundamental motive. Re- searchers have identiﬁed two broad motivational intentions related to social interactions (Hogan & Shelton, 1998; Wiggins & Trapnell, 1996). The ﬁrst dimension captures goals directed toward obtain- ing acceptance and intimacy in personal relationships. We label this personal striving Communion Striving. At work, Communion Striving would be expressed by actions associated with “getting along with others.” The second dimension, called Status Striving, reﬂects goals directed toward obtaining power and dominance within a status hierarchy. At work, employees often achieve this by “getting ahead of others.” We think of these two constructs as sep- arate measures that comprehensively depict the social dynamics of the work setting. In some sense, this distinction is one between the vertical organizational structure (interacting with superiors and subordinates) and the horizontal structure (dealing with peers). One of the major goals of this chapter is to introduce the funda- mental difference that emerges from these two personal strivings toward relatedness. In addition, this distinction is likely to have im- portant effects at the organizational level, as well as the individual level, a topic to which we will return.
