# 246 PERSONALITY AND WORK

modiﬁable or created in ways beneﬁcial to the motivation of the learner. As another example, Button, Mathieu, and Zajac (1996) contend that goal orientation is a stable trait but can be manipu- lated by a strong situation. Although a personality trait may be the dominant manner in which an individual prefers to learn, it is clear that learning states can also be induced by characteristics within the learning situation. It is an open question as to how to create a state that has an impact on learning prior to the person’s reverting back to his or her natural tendencies, strategies, and interpretations as- sociated with his or her dominant trait orientation (Elliot, 1999). A recent study by Weissbein and Ford (2002) shows one ap- proach to an intervention to affect learning states and subsequently learning outcomes. They focused directly on creating learning states regardless of the person’s stable traits. For example, it is dif- ﬁcult to change a person’s locus of control. Instead, they argue for the need to develop an intervention to affect trainee attributions or state level of locus of control. This argument is consistent with the work of Mischel, Fleeson, and others who have focused on sit- uations, variance in personality, and behavioral signatures. In par- ticular for this study, they showed videotapes of former trainees that attributed success in an assertiveness training program as based on persistence, effort, and strategy. The goal of this attribu- tional retraining was to change any unproductive attribution pat- terns that encourage helplessness, such as attributing failure to stable and uncontrollable factors (lack of ability), into constructive attributions, such as attributing success in training to unstable and controllable factors (effort). Trainees were exposed to the attri- butional retraining prior to attending a training program on as- sertiveness. Results indicated that the intervention had an impact on learning states. These learning states were related to pretrain- ing motivation, over and above the impact of the trait measure of locus of control, and this relationship was mediated by the attri- butional learning states. Motivation to learn was found to have an effect on learning in the assertiveness training program and led to better performance in the transfer setting in which the trainees conducted a salary negotiation task. Thus, even a relatively brief intervention prior to beginning the training session was found to induce beneﬁcial attributional patterns and discouraged mal- adaptive attributional patterns.