# 136 PERSONALITY AND WORK

The observation that affective states are generally reactions to speciﬁc events suggests that the ﬁrst place to look for a connection between personality and affect is in the experience of and reaction to events. In this regard, two links are particularly relevant. First, aspects of personality may inﬂuence events themselves. Second, and perhaps more important, aspects of personality may inﬂuence reactivity to events.

Personality may actually inﬂuence the events we experience, or, more precisely, the behavioral manifestations of personality traits may inﬂuence the nature of these events. For example, peo- ple who present a generally positive demeanor may be more likely to have positive things happen to them. Other people like them and enjoy being around them. Conversely, negative affective ex- pressions may elicit negative events.

In support of this idea, Magnus, Diener, Fujita, and Pavot (1993) examined the relationships between extraversion and neu- roticism, on the one hand, and self-reports of “objective” or veriﬁ- able positive and negative life events, on the other. Veriﬁable events were examined in order to reduce the effect of personality on the interpretation of more subjective occurrences. The data were col- lected in two waves. In the ﬁrst wave, respondents completed the NEO Personality Inventory (NEO-PI; Costa & McCrae, 1985). In the second wave, four years later, respondents reported on the fre- quency of the occurrence of various positive and negative objec- tive life events. Extraversion signiﬁcantly predicted the frequency of positive but not negative events over the next four years. Neu- roticism signiﬁcantly predicted the frequency of negative but not positive events over the next four years. Similarly, van Os, Park, and Jones (2001) showed that childhood assessments of neuroticism could predict the occurrence of stressful life events among a co- hort of adults in their late thirties and early forties.

Research on personality and the occurrence of affect-generating life events has been conﬁned to studying affective personality di- mensions like neuroticism and extraversion. This is the result of trying to discover mediational processes to explain the often found correlations between these affective traits and general assessments of emotional well-being. However, the relationship between per- sonality and affect-generating events need not be limited to those personality dimensions thought to be affective in nature. For ex- ample, conscientiousness is known to (modestly) predict perfor-