# 196 PERSONALITY AND WORK

comparisons will likely shed light on relationships between indi- vidual and team-level traits.

An aspect of the gene combination analogy that has not been explored is epistasis. Do traits interact with each other? One pos- sibility is that individual traits interact to inﬂuence team-level traits. This seems most possible when there are status differences in the team: people with higher status have stronger inﬂuences on groups (Berger, Webster, Ridgeway, & Rosenholtz, 1986). Extraverted peo- ple also tend to be aggressive and seek dominance over others (Stewart & Barrick, in press). The other individual traits of the extravert may thus have a greater inﬂuence on the team trait. For instance, an individual who is high on both Extraversion and Open- ness to Experience may inﬂuence the team toward developing openness. In contrast, an individual-level combination of Openness and low Extraversion may not be inﬂuential. Research related to such interactions, particularly with Extraversion in team settings, is needed and should provide additional insight into the process of team trait formation.

With the exception of perspectives that assess a team’s tasks, lit- tle work has been done to understand the inﬂuence of environ- mental factors on team personality development. Perhaps the best-developed insights into the effect of environment on team per- sonality are in the area of team norms, deﬁned as “informal rules that groups adopt to regulate and regularize group members’ be- havior” (Feldman, 1984, p. 47). This deﬁnition is very similar to the concept of personality. In fact, a lexical approach to team per- sonality in many ways provides a framework for labeling various norms. Feldman (1984) suggests that norms develop in four ways: members carry over behavior from past situations, team members and leaders make explicit statements, critical events occur, and pri- macy effects make early patterns difﬁcult to alter. The ﬁrst two are likely captured by the notion of individual traits. Previous experi- ences inﬂuence individual traits, and statements are manifestations of those traits. However, critical events and primacy suggest that events that occur in the team’s life span can have an impact on the traits that the team develops. Similar to personality at the individ- ual level (Wrightsman, 1994), these norms may develop fairly early and become somewhat resistant to change.