## PERSONALITY IN PERSON-ORGANIZATION FIT RESEARCH 265

fully suggests that they differ in meaningful ways. Values are de- ﬁned as enduring beliefs about modes of conduct that are per- sonally preferable (Rokeach, 1973). Value attainment has been described as comparing one’s life activities to some predetermined standard of success (Hochwarter, Perrewe, Ferris, & Brymer, 1999). They are “what people believe to be important” and what goals they wish to pursue (Schwartz, 1994; Schwartz & Sagiv, 1995). Al- ternatively, personality traits are “what people are like,” or their pervasive tendencies to show consistent patterns of thoughts, feel- ings, and actions (Herringer, 1998; McCrae & Costa, 1990). Thus, values are fundamentally aspirational or goal oriented, dealing with what a person wants to achieve, whereas personality is more descriptive, concerning how a person prefers to act or strive to achieve their goals.

A second distinction between values and personality is that al- though both are considered stable, traits are considered to be de- ﬁnably stable, with substantial internal or genetic causes (see Conley, 1984a; Dollinger et al., 1996; Rowe, 1987). Alternatively, values are susceptible to a variety of learned inﬂuences including self-confrontation, changes in society, and the inﬂuences of new environments (Cable & Parsons, 2001; Dollinger et al., 1996; Judge & Cable, 1997). Rohan (2000), in a review of the values construct, notes that an individual’s value system is a way to order which re- quirements or desires are more or less important to “best possible living.” She notes that value priorities will change in response to changes in circumstances as the deﬁnition of “best possible liv- ing” changes (for example, people tend to become more conserv- ative in values when they become parents).

In the light of these differences, there are several reasons to ex- pect that PO ﬁt based on personality should be at least as inﬂuen- tial as ﬁt based on values. First, because values are less stable than personality, ﬁt between a person’s and an organization’s values might be more susceptible to change over time than ﬁt based on personality. For example, a person who feels achievement is an im- portant value might decide as she ages that interpersonal warmth is more important and change her assessment of PO ﬁt with a given organization. In addition, there are numerous examples in the lit- erature of people’s values becoming more congruent with their or- ganization and occupations over time (Hall, Schneider, & Nygren,