data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0656.md, before:

## SELF-MONITORING PERSONALITY AND WORK RELATIONSHIPS 223

jobs (clerical, technical, and support staff) tended to be low self- monitors (Sypher & Sypher, 1983). This overrepresentation of high self-monitors in management positions may occur because of the pragmatic facility with which high self-monitors are able to adjust their attitudes and behaviors to the prevailing norms and cultures of speciﬁc organizations and positions. Whereas low self-monitors may prefer to stay in organizations or positions that allow them to express their true selves, high self-monitors may seek out new op- portunities to demonstrate their skills and abilities in impression management, conﬂict mediation, and boundary spanning. Whereas the low self-monitors deﬁne themselves by their inner beliefs and values, the high self-monitors deﬁne themselves by the prestigious roles they play in well-deﬁned social situations. The ASA model therefore may apply more to low self-monitors than to high self- monitors as far as ﬁt between individual and organizational values is concerned. High self-monitors are likely to be more concerned with ﬁt between their desire for well-deﬁned and prestigious posi- tions and the organizational availability of such opportunities. Whereas low self-monitors are likely to be constrained by ho- mophily pressures, high self-monitors are likely to pursue het- erophilous connections.

To the extent that hierarchical position signals status in a par- ticular organization, we might expect to ﬁnd high self-monitors, relative to low self-monitors, seeking out those of higher formal position as friends. However, status in organizations is likely to be deﬁned both informally and formally. Ever since the Hawthorne studies, organizational researchers have been aware of the emer- gence of informal leaders who lack ofﬁcial recognition but wield inﬂuence among the workforce. High self-monitors, with their keenly adjusted social skills, are more likely than low self-monitors to detect the actual distribution of status in the organization and to cluster around the rising stars. In addition, high self-monitors (relative to lows) are likely to be better at winning the attention of high-status others through ingratiation behaviors, broadcasting their ties to high-status others through judicious name drop- ping (that is, basking in reﬂected glory), and using their contacts with high-status others for career advancement within and across companies.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0656.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 585ea74bec5708e42584ccc3750eb15239af79e8
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# Homogeneity in Upper Levels

A question of great interest to researchers as well as laypeople is why certain people win out in workplace contests. Clearly, ability and merit should be important factors; however, individual per- sonality has also been shown to shape the fates of organizational contestants. Research has demonstrated that high self-monitors have superior job performance to low self-monitors (Mehra et al., 2001), especially when performance is measured through super- visory ratings (Day et al., 2002), and receive more promotions early in their career (Kilduff & Day, 1994). Extending such ﬁndings across organizational hierarchies suggests that high self-monitors should be overrepresented in middle- and upper-management po- sitions. Because progression into middle management has been ar- gued to be mainly a function of likeability and perceived ability to work with senior management (Hogan, Curphy, & Hogan, 1994), high self-monitors may have a competitive advantage in promo- tional tournaments. As a result, they may be disproportionately rep- resented in the upper echelons of organizations.

This conclusion corresponds with ﬁndings from a large insur- ance company in which employees with higher-level jobs (manage- ment) were typically high self-monitors and those with lower-level
