## What We Learn from Natural Language Personality Descriptions

The majority of lexical studies of personality descriptors have sought to test the most widely inﬂuential personality model of the past two decades: the Big Five factor structure (Goldberg, 1990, 1993b; John, 1990). The Big Five factors are customarily labeled Extraversion, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Emotional Sta- bility (or its opposite, Neuroticism), and Intellect (or, in one in- ventory representation, Openness to Experience). There were signs of the Big Five structure in some studies from an earlier era (as detailed by Digman, 1990; Goldberg, 1993b; John, 1990), but its identiﬁcation in studies of natural language descriptors in En- glish (Goldberg, 1990) was decisive.

If we value cross-cultural generalizability, however, applicability to one language is not enough. As detailed in more lengthy reviews (Saucier & Goldberg, 2001; Saucier, Hampson, & Goldberg, 2000), lexical studies have yielded structures resembling the Big Five most consistently in languages originating in northern Europe, includ- ing German (Ostendorf, 1990) and Polish (Szarota, 1996), as well as English. Although a study in Turkish (Goldberg & Somer, 2000) also found a structure with much resemblance to the Big Five, stud- ies of other non–Northern European languages (Church, Katigbak, & Reyes, 1998; Church, Reyes, Katigbak, & Grimm, 1997; Di Blas & Forzi, 1998; Szirmák & De Raad, 1994) have led to results that are less clearly supportive. And because a majority of studies have re- lied exclusively on self-report, the degree of generality of the Big Five in peer ratings is less certain than for self-ratings.

To this point, lexical studies have revealed a great deal about the relative robustness of the Big Five, as well as information about other less well-known candidate models, including some with fewer and some with more factors. We examine the most consistent ﬁndings from lexical studies to date by describing models with successively more factors.