# 276 PERSONALITY AND WORK

organization (top management teams), but that homogeneity for other groups (line workers with little decision-making latitude) may not be so problematic. They also note that good ﬁt may be more problematic in situations such as crises, where a diversity of view- points is important. A similar argument can be made with regard to situations requiring innovation. Chatman (1989) argued that high levels of ﬁt could lead to reduced innovation in organizations. Walsh and Holland’s review of the PV literature (1992) found neg- ative outcomes of ﬁt for problem solving and decision making, which would be in line with this prediction for PO ﬁt. Thus, good PO ﬁt of members has been suggested as bad for decision-making purposes or in decision-making contexts.

We think that this proposition may need reﬁnement for person- ality traits that involve adaptability, ﬂexibility, or openness to change. Because these traits deal speciﬁcally with the ability to change, ex- cessive levels of these traits are unlikely to lead to stultiﬁcation or strategic myopia. Indeed, the opposite effect would be expected: the organization would become highly responsive to the environ- ment. Given the rapid nature of change in today’s businesses, it is difﬁcult to see how increased responsiveness could have negative consequences for the company. As Schneider et al. (2000) noted, good ﬁt can be bad if homogeneity leads to groupthink, but it seems unlikely that homogeneity on personality characteristics dealing with ﬂexibility would create that problem.

In summary, a determination of whether personality PO ﬁt is a good thing should consider the type of ﬁt (congruence/supple- mentary versus complementary), the speciﬁc traits that are being assessed, and the outcomes (affect, performance) to be addressed. Because complementary ﬁt implies that needs are being ﬁlled, it is unlikely to generate negative consequences for individuals or or- ganizations in performance or affect. In terms of personality con- gruence, however, good PO ﬁt may result in positive individual attitudes but not have beneﬁts for productivity, depending on the traits under examination. Moreover, bad ﬁt of either type might result in positive individual consequences for both performance and affect when it leads to growth and development. For organi- zations, we agree with Schneider and colleagues that good sup- plementary ﬁt will generally lead to negative consequences in productivity. However, we suggest the caveat that when the trait has