data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0788.md, before:

## PERSONALITY IN PERSON-ORGANIZATION FIT RESEARCH 273

organization where a large portion of pay is at risk may put more effort into performing well so that his or her pay will be more se- cure. A person with a high need for achievement working in a ﬂat organization may learn to value lateral moves rather than just pro- motions. A different but also favorable consequence is that the per- ception of misﬁt may lead the individual to become more self-aware and seek other employment options, where his or her needs would be better fulﬁlled. Research has indicated that many people have in- accurate self-views (see Mabe & West, 1982, for a review), and incon- sistent information can lead to questioning one’s self-perceptions (Dilto & Lopez, 1992). Thus, misﬁt may afford an opportunity for development.

When personality-based PO ﬁt is assessed as the congruence between individuals and other members of the organization (sup- plementary ﬁt), somewhat different outcomes may be expected. The PO ﬁt literature generally discusses congruence (on values or personality) as having only positive consequences for the individ- ual. While we would agree with this in terms of affective outcomes (satisfaction), it may be that good ﬁt can have negative conse- quences for individual productivity depending on the type of per- formance required and the personality traits being considered. If performance involves problem solving or decision making, good ﬁt may suppress content-related conﬂict, which is necessary for high-quality decisions (Chatman, 1989). Therefore, when perfor- mance requires creativity or problem solving, poor PO personality ﬁt may offer an advantage. The type of personality trait also is likely to determine the relationship between ﬁt and productivity. For ex- ample, an individual low in conscientiousness in an environment with little emphasis on organization and details may be quite sat- isﬁed, but his or her lack of persistence is likely to lead to a low- ered level of productivity than someone who was a misﬁt because of higher conscientiousness. This example highlights the fact that the main effects for personality on performance should not be ig- nored when considering the effects of personality-based PO ﬁt on outcomes.

Furthermore, we propose that the lack of personality congru- ence with others in the organization could offer potential advan- tages for people. In the PV ﬁt area, Holland’s theory suggests a developmental value to bad ﬁt (Holland, 1985), with individuals

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0788.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f96f42cd0146f073c44f1d2636a6fad8a9f140dc
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 272 PERSONALITY AND WORK

inability to adapt, less innovation, groupthink). They note that this occurs because the ASA model suggests that organizations will tend toward homogeneity of personality. Schneider and colleagues argue that in general, good ﬁt leads to personality homogeneity and poor organizational health. Thus, the current wisdom is that personality-based PO ﬁt is good for the person and short-term in- dividual affective outcomes, but bad for the organization and long- term performance outcomes.

In this section, we discuss this dark side of personality-based PO ﬁt and when it is likely to occur. Building on some comments of Schneider et al. (2000), we discuss when good PO ﬁt can be bad and, expanding on that, argue that bad PO ﬁt can sometimes re- sult in good consequences. We reiterate that our focus is on PO ﬁt in terms of personality. Schnedier et al. noted that good ﬁt on goals might always be good, but good ﬁt on personality characteristics sometimes might not be.

When discussing the potential dark side of personality ﬁt, it is important to remember the distinctions that we drew in the ﬁrst section of this chapter. When personality-based PO ﬁt is concep- tualized as complementary ﬁt, such that individuals’ needs are met by an objective organizational characteristic (compensation system or type of ownership), it is difﬁcult to anticipate negative conse- quences for individuals. It is possible, of course, that an individ- ual’s personality may change in such a way that the organizational characteristic no longer meets his or her needs. However, per- sonality is inherently stable and is therefore unlikely to shift dramatically over time. Conley (1984b) demonstrated that self- opinion traits (self-esteem) are more variable than other types of personality traits, so there is the potential for a person’s self- esteem to change over time, thereby changing the level of PO ﬁt. Even in this situation, however, the resulting negative conse- quences are more likely due to a worsening of PO ﬁt than to neg- ative effects of good ﬁt.

Even if it is unlikely that good complementary personality- based PO ﬁt would have negative consequences for individuals, it is possible that poor complementary ﬁt may offer some individual- level beneﬁts. When there is a poor ﬁt between an individual’s per- sonality and organizational characteristics, turnover is only one option. For example, a risk-averse individual who is working in an
