# UNDERSTANDING THE DYNAMIC LEARNER 249

that case, the cost of training tailored to ATIs must be balanced with the beneﬁt realized (realizing that the cost and the beneﬁts may not entirely expressible in dollar amounts). A more practical case is where a mastery level on the training outcome is set, and individuals must achieve a posttraining score above that level. Scores beyond that level may be of value to the organization, but the explicit training goal is for trainees to obtain a score at or above the mastery level. In this case, where the mastery level is set is a key inﬂuence on whether training interventions should address ATIs that may be present. Consider, for instance, mastery level A. All individuals are below that level pretraining, but most are above that level posttraining. In this case, the training goal is met despite ATIs that may be present. Tailoring training to ATIs here may not be so important (although such tailoring may still make reaching the training goals easier or reactions to training more favorable, say, for those who prefer less structured training). Contrast this sit- uation with one where the mastery level is set at mastery level B. Here, approximately half the trainees achieve the mastery level and half do not, so training speciﬁc to ATIs might be more valuable. ATI training may entail a supplement for some of the individuals in a training course, or it may imply different training experiences for different sets of individuals. Of course, ﬁnding the ATIs has been and will continue to be a challenge. What is also needed to link re- search and practice, though, is a greater appreciation of the cir- cumstances under which ﬁnding ATIs is important.

Figure 9.4. Inﬂuence of Learning Mastery Level on Deﬁning a Strong or Weak Situation.

e m o c t u O g n n r a e L