---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 49c7f17014cdb2c256398ae38c497ddfde3b92db
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 274 PERSONALITY AND WORK

learning and adjusting from bad ﬁt experiences (spending a sum- mer working in a psychiatric hospital, for example, may convince an individual to pursue other ﬁelds of psychology). As we sug- gested previously, the person who works in an organization that does not allow for expression of his or her true personality can learn a lot about himself or herself from the experience, as well as a lot to bring to future job situations. The person may decide to learn new behaviors or gain new skills to ﬁt into the company bet- ter. This may stimulate an overall increase in adaptability that would beneﬁt the person regardless of his or her organizational circumstances—as in the case of the skills that Juan in our scenario was able to garner from his poor-ﬁt situation. The literature on ex- ecutive development often points to the need for challenging or stretch opportunities as ways for individuals to grow as leaders (Hall & Mirvis, 1995).

Moos (1987) argues that we should help people select envi- ronments that promote personal maturation, not just maximize congruence. For example, it might be good to suggest to a person low in conscientiousness to work with a group of highly conscien- tious individuals. The strong environment might force this person to attend to things against his or her natural proclivities. Finally, it is possible that by having a different personality from others in the organization, an individual might draw attention to himself or her- self in a favorable way. For instance, the extraverted engineer may receive greater accolades and promotions than his or her intro- verted counterparts because of willingness to self-promote and call attention to past accomplishments. Kristof-Brown et al. (2001) pre- sented evidence from two independent samples that being differ- ent from other team members on extraversion leads individuals to view their team as more cohesive and subsequently to contribute more fully to the performance of the team.

An interesting question is whether particular types of individ- uals might seek organizations where there is less than perfect con- gruence for reasons of self-enhancement. Pervin (1992) argued that people prefer similarity where they value part of themselves but not where a nonvalued part of the self is involved. He argued that in the latter case, individuals would desire environments seen as taking them in the direction toward which they aspire. Thus, a nonconscientious individual who would like to be more conscien-
