data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0910.md, before:

# RESEARCH THEMES FOR THE FUTURE 329

become overly reliant on the Big Five model when framing re- search questions. Ultimately, the appropriate personality structure or set of traits to examine depends on the intended purpose of the researcher. For example, in some situations, a one- or two-factor model of personality may be appropriate. Saucier and Goldberg note that one-factor solutions consistently yield an unrotated fac- tor labeled Evaluation, with desirable traits at one end and unde- sirable traits at the other. If this factor reﬂects a general evaluative (desirable versus undesirable) component, it may be useful to ex- amine how scores on this scale predict general overall perfor- mance compared to speciﬁc performance. Scullen, Mount, and Goff (2000) have shown that performance ratings capture both a general and a speciﬁc performance component associated with the particular attribute being rated. The evaluative personality factor may be a better predictor of the general performance component than of the speciﬁc performance components.

Similarly, two-factor solutions constantly yield personality traits related to positively valued dynamic qualities associated with indi- vidual ascendancy and socialization. These two factors have been alternatively labeled Agency and Communion (Bakan, 1966), Get- ting Ahead and Getting Along (Hogan, 1983), and Factors Beta and Alpha (Digman, 1997). Digman (1997) showed that Factor Alpha consists of the Five-Factor Model (FFM) factors of Conscientious- ness, Emotional Stability, and Agreeableness, whereas Factor Beta consisted of the FFM factors of Extraversion and Openness to Ex- perience. It may well be that the second higher-order construct, Factor Alpha, depicts a “functional personality” at work (Mount & Barrick, 1995), and emerging evidence suggests that this may be a valid predictor of overall performance across numerous occupa- tional groups. For example, a second-order meta-analysis by Bar- rick, Mount, and Judge (2001) revealed that at least two of the components of Factor Alpha, Conscientiousness and Emotional Stability, predict performance across jobs. Further evidence is pro- vided by research on employee reliability, which found that in- tegrity test validities were generalizable ((cid:1) = .41) and that these measures consisted of Conscientiousness, Emotional Stability, and Agreeableness (Ones, Viswesvaran, & Schmidt, 1993). In addition, Customer Service Orientation has been found to consist of these same three personality traits, and this composite measure again

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0910.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8f13fac04bf334b7ae0932f95a08cd9b70c81235
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 328 PERSONALITY AND WORK

they can best be organized and structured. The purpose in invit- ing these authors to contribute to this volume was to provide the I/O community of researchers with a summary of research on the structure of personality from the perspective of two leading schol- ars from the broader ﬁeld of personality psychology. They point out that Allport (1937) reviewed deﬁnitions of the concept of per- sonality and catalogued over ﬁfty distinct meanings for the term. This is not a trivial issue; deﬁnitions force researchers to make ex- plicit their assumptions, and they also inﬂuence which criterion variables will be selected. After reﬂecting on these comments, we were struck by how seldom researchers studying the role of per- sonality in the workplace explicitly deﬁne personality (we count ourselves among the guilty!). The de facto approach seems to be that personality is deﬁned as whatever constructs are measured by the inventory the researcher has chosen to use.

An important contribution of Saucier and Goldberg is that while the Big Five factor solution is robust, other factor structures emerge that may also be useful. For example, one-, two-, three-, seven-, and nine-factor solutions have also been derived. Support for the Big Five model is strong in terms of social importance, breadth, stability, cross-observer agreement, and generality across peer and self-rating data. But the Big Five compares less favorably to alternative models on criteria such as causal clarity, correspon- dence to main lines of biological inﬂuence, predictive validity, gen- eralizability across cultures and languages, association with theory, and comprehensiveness.

Saucier and Goldberg also discuss a vexing problem for our ﬁeld: the relative advantages of subdividing the broader factors into more speciﬁc subcomponents (facets). The problem with this approach is the difﬁculty in achieving consensus about how many facets there are and what they measure. An advantage of measur- ing subcomponents pertains to the potential gain in predictive va- lidity, which comes from tapping into many speciﬁc sources of variance. In general, however, it appears that the more speciﬁc the level of constructs is, the more potential confusion is engendered for researchers.

The challenge for I/O psychologists becomes one of deter- mining which structural model of personality is best for predicting work outcomes. A question we need to address is whether we have
