---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1d53e9fcc24087bd2e0b4366286e63ac4df38720
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# PERSONALITY AND JOB PERFORMANCE 99

Lance & Bennett, 2000). Motowidlo et al. suggest that personality should be the primary determinant of contextual knowledge and skill, because people possessing personality characteristics consis- tent with a particular element of contextual knowledge or skill should be more likely to notice the relative effectiveness of certain patterns of behavior in relevant situations, and thus more likely to master that knowledge or skill.

The Motowidlo et al. (1997) model is further distinguished from the Campbell et al. (1993) model by replacing motivation with task and contextual work habits. Work habits are patterns of behavior that people learn over time that can facilitate or interfere with job performance. They include characteristic motivational re- sponses such as choices for the amount, intensity, and duration of effort to expend; tendencies to approach or avoid certain situa- tions; procrastination; or persistence in the face of adversity. They also include characteristic responses that are not necessarily moti- vational in nature. Motowidlo et al. give an example of a sales rep- resentative who has been trained in the best way to deal with an angry customer and has shown the ability to do so, but occasion- ally reverts to pretraining habits of reacting with hostility. Task work habits are characteristic responses to situations that interfere with or facilitate the completion of tasks. Contextual work habits are characteristic responses that interfere with or facilitate performance in contextual work situations. Motowidlo et al. suggested that task habits are predicted by both cognitive ability and certain person- ality variables (such as Conscientiousness), and contextual habits are predicted primarily by certain other personality variables (such as Agreeableness and Extraversion). Because personality variables are expected to inﬂuence more determinants on the contextual side of the model and ability variables are expected to inﬂuence more determinants on the task side of the model, personality should be more related to contextual performance and ability should be more related to task performance.

Some studies have attempted to test the mediating aspects of the Motowidlo et al. (1997) model. Schmit, Motowidlo, Degroot, Cross, and Kiker (1996) investigated the mediating role of con- textual knowledge in the personality–contextual performance re- lationship in a sample of sales associates. In this study, the personality measures assessed Extraversion, Agreeableness, and
