---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7116076691b2b866f4367304ef2352f4895ad0be
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# Applications

Although much of what is presented in this book is based on ap- plied research in the workplace, there is not a speciﬁc chapter on practical applications of research on personality in organizations. We believe that issues related to application such as cross-cultural equivalency of measures, socially desirable responding, applicant perceptions of personality inventories, and the like are certainly im- portant, but our focus here is on understanding the role of per- sonality in work-related behaviors and affective responses to work rather than on how personality can or should be assessed for work- related applications. Nevertheless, we believe that this book does speak volumes about considerations in assessing personality for per- sonnel decision making and organizational intervention purposes. One example is in the area of employee selection. Recent re- search has highlighted the utility of personality in predicting valued outcomes in organizations (for example, less counterproductive be- havior, higher quality and quantity of performance, and lower like- lihood to withdraw), as well as obtaining more diverse hiring (that is, low disparate impact). Although this book does not have a chap- ter dedicated to selection issues, many, if not all, of the chapters ad- dress the implications that personality has for the practice of hiring. For example, Barrick et al. (Chapter Three) note that higher performance can be obtained across all jobs if one hires employees who are highly conscientious and emotionally stable, but whether other personality traits (Extraversion, Agreeableness, and Open- ness to Experience) result in higher performance depends on whether these traits are relevant to the actual job activities. Hough (Chapter Eleven) illustrates that although Openness to Experience has not been found to be relevant to performance at work, facets of Openness are likely to be relevant to outcomes related to the in- creasing diversity and rapid change of the workplace.

Also, several chapters imply a fundamentally different approach to selection than that typically conducted. For example, the chapter on ﬁt (Chapter Ten, by Ryan & Kristof-Brown) emphasizes the idea that whom an organization hires may depend on who is currently in the job, group, or organization. Similarly, Stewart’s discussion of teams in Chapter Seven recognizes that the role of personality is
