# 140 PERSONALITY AND WORK

have proposed different appraisal dimensions, and so it is difﬁcult to generate particular dispositional components that would be univer- sally accepted as relevant to secondary appraisal. Nonetheless, enough commonalities exist to suggest avenues for exploration. Many appraisal theorists discuss the importance of the assessment of per- sonal accountability. External attribution for events can lead to non-self-focused emotions like anger. Personal attribution can lead to self-focused emotions like guilt. Individual differences in locus of control (that is, the tendencies to judge events as self or exter- nally caused) will therefore inﬂuence the particular emotions gen- erated by particular events and outcomes.

Many theorists also discuss the role of changeablity of the state, particularly with regard to negative states (Smith & Kirby, 2001). Clearly, dispositions such as self-esteem or self-efﬁcacy are likely to be relevant to such judgments and therefore to the differential elic- itation of discrete emotions. In a related fashion, studies have shown that learned helplessness attributional style (Abramson, Seligman, & Teasdale, 1978), a personality trait characterized by a belief in an inability to change one’s situation, is associated with depression (Yee, Edmondson, Santoro, Begg, & Hunter, 1996).

Overall, while much has been done on the appraisal dimen- sions that generate discrete emotions, less research has been done on appraisal templates, that is, stable differences in appraisal ten- dencies. Certainly, individual personality dimensions developed in other contexts can and have been shown to be relevant to emo- tional appraisal. However, more coherent attempts to tie disposi- tions to the full nature of emotional appraisal are infrequently encountered but would be very useful.

Emotion processes do not stop with emotion generation. Emo- tions elicit cognitive, attitudinal, and behavioral responses of rel- evance to work behavior (see Brief & Weiss, 2002, for a current review), and individual differences in personality are likely to touch on these processes as well. In recent years, a great deal of attention has been paid to processes of emotion regulation. Gross (1999) published an important paper on emotion regulation, and Larsen (2000b) had a lead article in Psychological Inquiry on mood regula- tion. In the organizational literature, Pugh (2002) has published a good general discussion of individual and group emotion- regulation processes. To refer back to Larsen’s general model