---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 698ab6f8113d9001e349147c0dac6ae4a314338c
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 190 PERSONALITY AND WORK

Although no empirical research compares lexical descriptions of teams with descriptions of individuals, a number of studies and case descriptions adopt language that is highly similar to FFM dimensions. Bettenhausen and Murnighan (1991) created coop- erative and competitive bargaining teams. These teams differed substantially on Agreeableness, with some being described as ar- gumentative and stubborn and others as trusting and straightfor- ward. Davis-Sacks (1990) studied a credit analysis team of federal employees. Although individuals were described as conscientious, the team did not meet its major deadline and was described with terms like careless and unreliable, which are negative markers of Con- scientiousness. Barker (1993) examined manufacturing teams that could be classiﬁed as low in Emotional Stability. Over time, the teams developed a sense of sadness and fear. Consistent with low Emo- tional Stability, they expressed feelings of vulnerability and self- consciousness. Cohen and Denison’s study of ﬂight teams (1990) contrasted an extraverted team with an introverted one. The ex- traverted team constantly chatted with ﬂight passengers, enjoyed receiving attention, and competed hard to excel at customer ser- vice. The introverted team was less hurried and less enthusiastic. Although the individual team members were somewhat outgoing, the team as a whole adopted a relatively detached approach to social interaction. Saavedra (1990) reported differences that are repre- sentative of Openness to Experience. One beer sales team followed standard operating procedures and did not look for alternative methods of accomplishing tasks. Another team constantly altered procedures and approached tasks in unconventional ways.

Based on common descriptors of teams, the FFM appears to be at least somewhat adaptable for describing important traits at the team level of analysis. Yet the extent to which FFM trait descriptors are capable of capturing the full range of team regularities and trends is unknown. This is an area where additional research is needed. Nevertheless, because the FFM is based on studies that have incorporated as many as eighteen thousand descriptors (All- port & Odbert, 1936; Goldberg, 1981), it seems quite possible that it may have adequate breadth to summarize important team traits. Even if additional research discovers that the FFM is not as useful for describing teams as individuals, existing evidence does support the idea that teams develop both behavioral regularities and in-
