## Other Personality Theories and Taxonomies

Much of the I/O research investigating the role of personality in affecting workplace behavior is based on a hierarchical model of trait variables, speciﬁcally, the FFM (often referred to as the Big Five) identiﬁed through analysis of lexical terms (language). (For a review of the advantages and disadvantages of this model of per- sonality from an I/O perspective as well as other hierarchical mod- els, see R. Schneider & Hough, 1995; Hough & Schneider, 1996; and Chapter One, this volume.)

Many other models of the structure of personality variables exist. One of the more recent approaches to developing a taxon- omy of personality variables is Hough’s nomological-web cluster- ing approach (Hough & Ones, 2001). Hough and Ones call for research and reﬁnement of the initial set of constructs, arguing that once I/O has an understanding of the nomological webs of personality variables, compound variables can be synthesized to predict behavior in a rapidly changing work world with unique conﬁgurations of criterion (performance) constructs. Other struc- tural models integrate emotion and personality (Plutchik, 1997) and interpersonal behavior (Wiggins, 1980) into a circumplex structure. The ﬁeld of personality psychology has many theories of personality as well. Already, our models incorporate motiva- tional forces as part of our deﬁnition of personality, forces that ac- tivate and energize behavior. Our models of performance will beneﬁt from greater use of some of these other personality theo- ries. (See Hogan, Johnson, & Briggs, 1997, and Roberts & Hogan, 2001, for an in-depth review of personality theories and their rel- evance to I/O.)