## DISPOSITIONAL INFLUENCES ON AFFECTIVE EXPERIENCES AT WORK 141

(2000a) of individual differences in emotion processes, these are discussions of the output side. All of these discussions of emotion regulation mention the role of personality in regulatory processes, but in most of the chapters, the personality discussion is somewhat isolated and not well integrated with the basic processes.

Nonetheless, certain traits are clearly relevant and worth dis- cussing. Pugh (2002), summarizes the work on emotional expres- sivity (Friedman, Prince, Riggio, & DiMatteo, 1980; Gross & John, 1998) and its relevance to regulatory processes. Emotional ex- pressivity refers to individual differences in the extent to which people overtly express their emotions. Pugh suggests that emo- tional expressivity acts as an “output ﬁlter” between emotional ex- periences and their expression and that this ﬁlter is relatively stable. Its relevance for understanding emotion-generated behav- ioral outcomes in organizations is discussed by Pugh.

Emotions are known to disrupt ongoing activities and interfere with performance tasks, partly through the interference effects of rumination and intrusive thought. Numerous discussions of emo- tions, cognitive interference, and rumination have been published in the past few years (see Sarason, Pierce, & Sarason, 1996, and Martin & Tesser, 1996). All indicate the importance of cognitive in- terference for understanding the performance consequences of emotions. In this area, Sarason and his colleagues have developed a measure of individual differences in the tendency to engage in interfering thoughts during task performance, the Thought Oc- currence Questionnaire (Sarason, Sarason, Keefe, Hayes, & Shearon, 1986). This disposition appears to be a prime candidate for understanding differences in the work performance conse- quences of emotional states. Finally, both Larsen (2000b) and Parkinson and Totterdell (1999) have recently offered classiﬁca- tion schemes for affect-regulation strategies. Larsen has suggested that such schemes readily lend themselves to dispositional analy- ses of regulatory processes.

Affective states inﬂuence judgments and behaviors in ways other than through the by-products of regulatory processes. Both discrete emotions, and particularly mood states, bias memory and judgments and inﬂuence the depth of cognitive processing (Weiss, 2002a). Gohm and Clore (2000) have presented an analysis of the role that personality plays in the link between mood states and