data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0629.md, before:

# 208 PERSONALITY AND WORK

Low self-monitors are more likely to adopt a principled interper- sonal orientation in which there is a high correspondence between their attitudes, beliefs, and values (that is, their genuine selves) and their social behavior.

Previous research has shown that self-monitoring has good discriminant validity with other personality constructs. As Sny- der (1987) noted, “The list of other measures with which self- monitoring is not meaningfully correlated is a long one” (p. 27). This list includes constructs such as locus of control, ﬁeld depen- dence, self-esteem, social desirability, neuroticism, trait anxiety, and intelligence. A recent meta-analysis of the relationships be- tween self-monitoring and the Big Five personality factors also in- dicates generally good discriminant validity (Schleicher & Day, 2002). The sample weighted correlations between self-monitoring and Agreeableness (r = .04), Conscientiousness (r = −.02), and Neu- roticism (r = −.01) all indicate construct independence (there were insufﬁcient study numbers to examine Openness to Experience). As would be expected, however, there was a moderately large over- all correlation with Extraversion (r = .37). This is expected because Extraversion is one of the subscales of the Self-Monitoring Scale (the others being acting and other-directedness). Nonetheless, self- monitoring has been shown to be a conceptually distinct and meaningful construct apart from its subscales (Gangestad & Sny- der, 2000).

Another interesting aspect of the historical development of the self-monitoring construct is that the scientiﬁc study of self- monitoring personality and social behavior has progressed through a sequence of increasingly more complex research strategies (Sny- der & Ickes, 1985). The early-adopted dispositional strategy as- sumed that consistencies in social behavior could be understood in terms of relatively enduring dispositional characteristics associ- ated with self-monitoring. In general, this approach worked to identify categories of people who demonstrated those dispositional and behavioral characteristics of interest and provided a psycho- metrically sound measure of those categories (the Self-Monitoring Scale). The interactional strategy that followed assumed that the noted variation in social behavior was due to the interaction of dis- positional and situational factors. Empirically, this general strategy sought to identify moderator variables that illuminated those con-

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work__chunk0629.md, after:

---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f852a253c8b9ca45851a3da6d1090c93f63063d6
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# Self-Monitoring Personality

In addition to guiding individual thinking and behavior, motives are shaped by dispositional factors such as personality. One partic- ular personality construct with demonstrated relevance (validity) in organizational contexts is self-monitoring (Day, Schleicher, Unck- less, & Hiller, 2002; Snyder & Copeland, 1989). An underlying as- sumption of the self-monitoring construct is that people differ in the extent that they monitor (observe, regulate, and control) the public appearance of self they display in social settings and in cre- ating and managing their interpersonal relationships (Snyder, 1974, 1987). Interesting and somewhat unique aspects of self-monitoring as a personality construct are the emphases on the conceptualization and representation of self in social situations and two separate, dis- tinct, and independent self-monitoring orientations (Gangestad & Snyder, 1985). High self-monitors tend to be pragmatic in present- ing themselves in interpersonal situations in that they regulate their behavior to promote situationally appropriate interaction outcomes.
