# UNDERSTANDING THE DYNAMIC LEARNER 251

processes such as deep processing of material, study strategies, and anxiety levels. In addition, Elliot and Thrash (2002) present a more integrative perspective of personality, approach-avoid motivations, and goal orientation. They present evidence that personality char- acteristics such as extraversion and positive emotionality load on the approach dimension, while neuroticism and negative emo- tionality load on the avoid dimension.

From a training or learning perspective, a key issue is how much of an inﬂuence one can have on achievement goals. The framework of Elliot and colleagues suggests that the basic temperaments or un- derlying motivational pushes of approach and avoid are probably fairly well ingrained by adulthood. This leads to a question as to the extent to which organizations can create motivational states that are contrary to an individual’s natural and personality-driven tenden- cies. Although the answer to this is yet unclear, some recent re- search provides a window into the possibility of directing attention to affecting mastery- and performance-oriented states of the learner in particular learning situations. For example, Kozlowski, Gully, Smith, Nason, and Brown (1995) instructed participants in a mas- tery goal condition to focus on learning the components of a task, trying out new skills, and exploring new strategies. Individuals in the performance goal condition were instructed to achieve a difﬁ- cult and speciﬁc outcome goal. Results indicated that compared to trainees with performance goals, trainees with mastery goals tended to be more self-conﬁdent, gained more knowledge from training, and were more likely to generalize skills from the train- ing task to a new and more complex transfer task.

Recent work in the educational ﬁeld has gone beyond study- ing the simple additive effects of goal-orientation traits on behav- ior to focus on the multiple traits and multiple pathways that link traits to achievement-related outcomes. Increasing our under- standing of these traits and pathways is critical to developing ap- propriate interventions to aid learning.

A multiple goal perspective (for example, see Wentzel, 1991, 1992) takes more of a developmental or process perspective to achievement motivation and learning. An assumption of this approach is that mastery goals may lead to different learning pro- cesses and different outcomes than do performance goal orienta- tions. These different pathways and outcomes provide a more