## INFLUENCES ON TRAIT-BEHAVIOR RELATIONSHIPS 65

on this issue. They would allocate their attention on interpersonal activities that might close this gap and think about a plan (effort and persistence) to accomplish that end. It is these allocation and effort and persistence decisions that we describe as self-regulatory. Regulatory goals can be organized hierarchically as well (Cro- panzano, James, & Citera, 1992), ranging from abstract goal orien- tations or response styles (for example, motivational orientations toward achievement and afﬁliation) to midlevel goals, such as per- sonal strivings and personal projects, to more concrete goals or spe- ciﬁc performance goals complete with precise action plans. We believe that to predict relatively general performance measures, one should adopt relatively general midlevel goals. These goals are likely to reﬂect personal strivings (Emmons, 1989), which are formulated as speciﬁc means of attaining certain desired end states (to be one of the highest performers in the department, for example) at work. However, personal strivings are not so precise as to contain fully de- tailed plans and actions. They also are not so broad as to be un- necessarily vague and imprecise regarding future-directed plans. Rather, personal strivings represent broad, general intentions or motives that direct future courses of action at work. Although much research has gone into the higher-level motivational orientations (VandeWalle, 1999; Dweck, 1986) and speciﬁc task goals (Locke & Latham, 1990), less work in industrial/organizational psychology has gone into the midrange goals.

Sheldon, Elliot, Kim, and Kasser (2001) examined ten funda- mental motives that people strive to fulﬁll through satisfying events or experiences. Across three different studies, they found that mo- tives labeled as self-esteem, relatedness, autonomy, and competence were strongly related to an individual’s most satisfying experiences. This suggests that people are motivated to achieve a sense of self- respect (self-esteem), meaningful contact with others (relatedness), enhanced perceived control (autonomy), and challenging work that demonstrates their own capabilities (competence). We believe that people incorporate these fundamental motives into their goals or personal strivings.

Two of these fundamental motives, striving for self-esteem and competence, should be related to goals or personal strivings associ- ated with task achievement. Task-oriented employees have a strong desire to accomplish task-related goals as a means of expressing their