---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 25c60a30ba1bf9d0765a7495d6b59d4adebf18a9
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## INFLUENCES ON TRAIT-BEHAVIOR RELATIONSHIPS 61

Less attention has been devoted to developing theory and re- search related to the inﬂuence of situations (Hattrup & Jackson, 1996; Murtha, Kanfer, & Ackerman, 1996; Peters & O’Connor, 1980; Stewart & Barrick, in press). Although there has been more discussion on these issues in the personality literature, there is a lack of theory related to the work context (Hattrup & Jackson, 1996). This is surprising given evidence that relationships between personality and performance are stronger when one accounts for the context a priori (Tett, Jackson, Rothstein, & Reddon, 1994). In short, meta-analytic true-score correlations between personality measures and performance tend to be signiﬁcantly larger if re- searchers use their understanding of the job and organizational context (conﬁrmatory versus exploratory analyses) to develop hy- potheses about which personality traits are expected to be related to performance. Researchers thus seem capable of specifying which traits will be related to performance by accounting for situational demands (the job context). However, this approach provides no in- formation about the process whereby the situation inﬂuences the re- lationship or about which aspects of the situation are crucial for moderating relationships with personality.

To advance research related to the situation, we need theory about how different settings inﬂuence relationships between per- sonality and behavior. Although some work in the ﬁeld of leadership has been done matching contexts and leader attributes (Fiedler, 1967), less work has been done in the ﬁeld of motivation (Mitchell, 1997), which is particularly relevant for research on personality. We thus need to develop methods for conceptualizing the basic kinds of situations or, alternatively, identifying what variables are useful for comparing one situation with another. As a step toward this theoretical development, we focus on the distinction between competitive and cooperative situations. Although we agree that more dimensions will ultimately deﬁne work settings, these two have been shown to capture key differences in the social dynamics of work environments (Stewart & Barrick, in press).

The third component of the study of human nature involves be- havior. Job analysts and others have devoted considerable effort to describing behavior at work (Harvey, 1991). In fact, Campbell (1991) argues that behavior is the only appropriate representation of per- formance in work contexts. However, there has not been enough
