---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 54b2349c74d77a9ccc6dca4315951d81865f8cd4
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## DISPOSITIONAL INFLUENCES ON AFFECTIVE EXPERIENCES AT WORK 127

the Minnesota Satisfaction Questionnaire (Hart, 1999; Smith & Tziner, 1998; Watson & Slack, 1993) and the Job Descriptive Index (Glynn, 1998; Judge & Hulin, 1993; Levin & Stokes, 1989). In ad- dition, job satisfaction, unlike affective experiences, is a fairly sta- ble construct. Although results generally show moderate relations between affective personality constructs and job satisfaction, these results, weak or strong, tell us very little about personality and true affective reactions.

Psychological strain as an outcome of exposure to job stressors has many operationalizations, including job satisfaction, frustra- tion, anxiety, depression, burnout, and physical health problems. Some of these may be considered emotional reactions, but, inter- estingly, even so are generally measured over a period of time (say, in the past month). For example, Chen and Spector (1991) asked participants “how they generally felt at work during the past 30 days,” but they called this a “state” measure of anger. The same type of measure has been used with anxiety (Jex & Gudanowski, 1992; Jex & Spector, 1996; Spector, Chen, & O’Connell, 2000).

Our second conclusion relates to the ﬁrst point. Overwhelm- ingly, when more clearly affective constructs have been studied, ag- gregate measures have been used as the dependent variable. Sometimes measures of relatively stable constructs like satisfaction are used; sometimes people are asked to aggregate their momentary experiences subjectively over a particular time period (for example, “How have you typically felt over the last month?”); sometimes re- searchers aggregate momentary data mechanically. The Job Affect Scale (Brief, Burke, George, Robinson, & Webster, 1988) used in several studies (George, 1990; Saavedra & Kwun, 2000) asks for the respondent’s mood for the past week rather than at the moment the person is responding to the items. Stokes and Levin (1990) re- lated their new negative affectivity scale to experienced positive and negative affect over a one-week period. Other studies have used one-day measures, assessing the respondents’ judgments of their average moods over the course of a day (Bohle & Tilley, 1993). Although these studies have found relationships between personality constructs and individual differences in average affect, this paradigm is not able to explain the within-person changes in affect, which we have noted is a large portion of the total variance in emotional states.
