# 90 PERSONALITY AND WORK

thing under the general label of citizenship performance (Borman & Penner, 2001; Coleman & Borman, 2000).

Conﬁrmatory factor analyses have provided evidence for the dis- tinction between task and citizenship performance (Conway, 1996; Johnson, 2001). Furthermore, research has shown that both task performance and citizenship performance are taken into consid- eration when supervisors evaluate others’ performance (Conway, 1999; Johnson, 2001; Motowidlo & Van Scotter, 1994; Van Scotter & Motowidlo, 1996). Some research also shows that task perfor- mance is better predicted by ability and experience, and citizenship performance is better predicted by personality variables (Borman, Penner, Allen, & Motowidlo, 2001; Hurtz & Donovan, 2000).

The dimensionality of citizenship performance is muddled, with different authors offering different numbers of dimensions with dif- ferent labels (Borman & Motowidlo, 1993; LePine, Erez, & John- son, 2002; Organ, 1988; Podsakoff, MacKenzie, Paine, & Bachrach, 2000). In an attempt to clarify the latent structure of citizenship performance, Coleman and Borman (2000) identiﬁed twenty- seven citizenship performance behaviors based on all proposed models and discussions presented in the literature. The behaviors were sorted by forty-four I/O psychologists, and the similarity data were analyzed using factor analysis, multidimensional scaling, and cluster analysis. The authors rationally combined the results of the separate analyses into a single integrated model representing three categories of behavior. Borman, Buck et al. (2001) reﬁned this taxonomy on the basis of a sort of approximately twenty- three hundred examples of citizenship performance taken from twenty-two studies, giving the categories the following labels and explanations:

Personal support: Behaviors beneﬁting individuals in the organiza- tion; includes helping, motivating, cooperating with, and show- ing consideration of others

Organizational support: Behaviors beneﬁting the organization; in- cludes representing the organization favorably, showing loyalty, and complying with organizational rules and procedures Conscientious initiative: Behaviors beneﬁting the job or task; includes persisting with extra effort to complete tasks, taking initiative, and engaging in self-development activities (Borman, Penner et al., 2001).