# Can Teams Have Personality?

Personality at the individual level is deﬁned as a person’s social reputation or the structures, dynamics, processes, and propensity inside a person (Hogan, 1991). Extending this deﬁnition to the team level of analysis suggests that teams can have personality to the extent that they have regularities in behavior that are perceived consistently by outside observers and internal dynamics and processes that inﬂuence their actions. Teams have observable reg- ularities in both behavior and internal processes, suggesting that the construct of personality may indeed be useful at the team level of analysis.

A key difference from individual-level research is that the trait should be descriptive of the group as a whole rather than of indi- viduals who comprise the team. At the individual level, the dimen- sions on which people vary are captured in lexical approaches, which assume that “those individual differences that are most sig- niﬁcant in the daily transactions of persons with each other will eventually become encoded into their language” (Goldberg, 1981, p. 142). The question is the extent to which descriptors at the in- dividual level have application to daily transactions at the team level. Kets de Vries and Miller (1986) did some initial work in this area by describing how organizations develop pathological tendencies that are similar to individual-level pathologies such as depression and compulsion. Although this approach is insightful, a lexical focus on the descriptive concepts encoded into language can potentially pro- vide greater insight into the daily activities of teams.

Lexical classiﬁcation of normal personality at the individual level has converged on the FFM. Factor analysis of trait descrip- tions across languages and cultures suggests that trait descriptors can ultimately be grouped into ﬁve broad categories (Barrick & Mount, 1991; Digman, 1990). The FFM classiﬁcations are Agree- ableness (friendliness, generosity, cooperative), Conscientiousness (efﬁcient, organized, thorough), Extraversion (sociable, outgoing, ascendant), Emotional Stability (relaxed, optimistic, unfearful), and Openness to Experience (unconventional, imaginative, ad- venturous). An important question is thus how well team regular- ities can be grouped into the FFM classiﬁcations.