# 162 PERSONALITY AND WORK

systematic research on the relationship between personality variables and various perceived consequences of CWBs. However, one per- sonality trait that may affect this perception is self-monitoring (Snyder, 1987). High and low self-monitors differ in the importance they accord to making a good impression. Individuals high in self- monitoring care about what other people think of them, and they may adjust their behavior to enhance others’ perception of them. Be- cause they are less concerned with public perceptions of their be- havior, low self-monitors may not perceive any personal consequences for committing a CWB. In contrast, high self-monitors may perceive that there are very important negative social consequences to such behavior and thus be less likely to commit CWBs.

Covey, Saladin, and Killen (1989) demonstrated that high self- monitors will not increase their rate of cheating when given incen- tives, whereas low self-monitors will do so. Beliefs about the potential social embarrassment of getting caught may be enough to dissuade the high self-monitor from engaging in high-risk cheating.

Beliefs About the Desirability of the Consequences of CWBs Let us consider next how personality traits might be related to our beliefs about the desirability of outcomes arising from CWBs. As an example, we consider how a particular personality trait, achieve- ment striving, might inﬂuence our attitude toward the counter- productive behavior of production deviance, that is, not working diligently on the job.

One mechanism through which the trait of achievement striv- ing could affect judgments about the desirability of the conse- quences of not working hard is cognitive dissonance theory (Festinger, 1957). According to dissonance theory, individuals are motivated to maintain a logical consistency surrounding the items of knowledge, information, or beliefs that relate to them or their surroundings. When important beliefs are not consistent with each other, dissonance theory predicts that an individual will experience a state of psychological discomfort and attempt to ease that dis- comfort by making the beliefs consonant with each other.

How do these insights apply to our example? Individuals who are low on achievement striving think of themselves, and are thought of by others, as unambitious, unindustrious, and unen- terprising (Costa & McCrae, 1992). Accordingly, these individuals