---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0332551a66fce34c45b1baf8bdfdb843a53a9c96
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
# 302 PERSONALITY AND WORK

variables, concluded that three of the Big Five—Conscientiousness, Extraversion, and Openness to Experience—correlate moderately with Holland’s interest themes, and all of the RIASEC themes are rep- resented, at least at the facet level, in the Big Five. A meta-analysis to determine more precisely the overlap between personality and interest variables would be informative.

However, even if much of the variance in Holland’s RIASEC per- sonality types is shown to overlap with Big Five factors, research that has examined the criterion-related validity of Holland interest and Big Five personality variables indicates that they predict different types of work-related outcomes. De Fruyt and Mervielde (1999) found that the Holland RIASEC personality types and the Big Five personality factors differed in their validity for predicting employ- ment status (employed versus unemployed) and nature of em- ployment (type of job). RIASEC types were clearly superior in ex- plaining the type of work in which participants were employed (re- alistic, artistic), whereas Extraversion and Conscientiousness (Big Five factors) were superior in predicting employment status, such as employed or unemployed. If Hough’s nomological-web cluster- ing approach (Hough & Ones, 2001) were used to investigate the taxonomic structure of the two sets of variables, an expanded tax- onomy of personality variables would undoubtedly emerge to ac- count for the different nomological nets of these variables.

Emotion and Affect Emotionality, emotional expressivity, emotional regulation, and af- fectivity variables are important for understanding work behavior. Research on the subject has burgeoned. Theories (Weiss & Cro- panzano, 1996), books (Ashkanasy, Hartel, & Zerbe, 2000; Lewis & Haviland-Jones, 2000; Lord, Klimoski, & Kanfer, 2002), journals (Emotion), special issues of journals, and hundreds of articles on the subject exist. Emotionality and affectivity play a role in models re- lated to satisfaction (Judge & Hulin, 1993), leadership (Glomb & Hulin, 1997), organizational citizenship behavior and workplace deviance (Lee & Allen, 2002), workplace violence (Glomb, Steel, & Arvey, 2002), counterproductive behavior (Iverson & Deery, 2001), voluntary work behavior (Spector & Fox, 2002), happiness (Diener, 2000), and burnout (Brotheridge & Grandey, 2002; T. Wright & Cropanzano, 1998), to name just a few. (See Chapter Five, this vol- ume, for more information about personality and affect.)
