# 306 PERSONALITY AND WORK

performance (Frei & McDaniel, 1998; MacLane, 1996; Mount et al., 1998). Another example of a job characteristic that can mod- erate relationships between personality characteristics and per- formance is autonomy. In managerial jobs, degree of job autonomy moderates the validity of Conscientiousness, Extraversion, and Agreeableness (Barrick & Mount, 1993). Conscientiousness and Extraversion are more highly positively correlated with perfor- mance in high-autonomy jobs than in low-autonomy jobs; Agree- ableness is more highly negatively correlated with performance in high-autonomy jobs than in low-autonomy jobs. This study high- lights the importance of situations and their impact on both the type (moderator) and direction (positive versus negative) of rela- tionships in our models.

Researchers conducting meta-analyses often summarize validi- ties within job (manager, police ofﬁcer, sales job), and often va- lidities are found to differ depending on the job. However, the number of jobs in any economy is enormous, and in today’s econ- omy, many are changing. Building separate theories about the de- terminants of performance for each job is unhelpful to the science and practice of I/O psychology. Theory building requires better strategies to deﬁne situations.

Some researchers have used Holland’s RIASEC model as a tax- onomic structure for classifying work environments and educa- tional specialty. When criterion-related validities of personality variables are examined within the six job types, validities differ, in- dicating the importance of type of job as a moderator variable (Fritzsche, McIntire, & Yost (2002; Hogan, Hogan, & Roberts, 1996). Hough and Furnham (2003), however, provide a caution to this interpretation. They suggest that if, instead of overall job performance, speciﬁc performance constructs were the criteria, the apparent moderating effects of the RIASEC job types would disappear.