---
source_path: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e2e9f5c5a5c97c2f4772d912634919b68c5894db
title: barrickryan_eds_personality_and_work
---
## THE STRUCTURE OF PERSONALITY ATTRIBUTES 17

A more comprehensive circumplex representation was pro- posed by Hofstee, De Raad, and Goldberg (1992). Dubbed the AB5C model, for Abridged Big Five-Dimensional Circumplex, this representation contains the ten bivariate planes formed from all pairs of the Big Five factors. In the AB5C model, each trait is as- signed to the plane formed by the two factors with which it is most highly associated (for example, its two highest factor loadings). Variables that are located in close proximity in each plane are clus- tered together so as to form ninety clusters of interrelated traits. Because of the circular ordering of these clusters, they form forty- ﬁve bipolar dimensions. An inventory developed to measure these forty-ﬁve AB5C facets has been provided by Goldberg (1999).

At a less formal level, the scales in some personality inventories are ordered horizontally by the similarity among their scales; for example, the scales from the CPI are grouped on the proﬁle sheet in such a way that adjacent scales are more highly associated with each other than are those located further away. Indeed, the loca- tions of the scales on the proﬁle sheets for most personality in- ventories are based on some degree of such horizontal ordering. More recently, some inventory developers have used an ex- plicitly hierarchical scheme for ordering their middle-level con- structs. A few of these have been borrowed from lexical research on the Big Five factor structure. The most salient example of in- corporating ﬁndings from lexical studies into inventory construc- tion has been provided by Costa and McCrae (1992), who added the lexical Agreeableness and Conscientiousness factors to their original three-factor NEO inventory. The latest revision of their in- ventory has six subcomponents (called facets) associated with each of the ﬁve highest-level constructs (called domains), for a total of thirty scales.

Other multiscale personality inventories provide a wide range of organizational schemes for their middle-level personality con- structs. For example, the sixteen scales of the 16PF are associated with ﬁve broad factors, and the eleven scales from the Multidi- mensional Personality Questionnaire (Tellegen, in press) are clas- siﬁed as facets of four factors. At the other extreme, the thirty-one scales from the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI; Cloninger, Przybeck, Svrakic, & Wetzel, 1994) are organized as
