# 194 PERSONALITY AND WORK

measures of accuracy and work completion. As predicted by a dom- inance effect, the inclusion of a single individual either very high or very low on Agreeableness seems to have a large impact on col- lective cooperativeness, and thereby the performance of the team. In accordance with the additive notion of combining individuals and the additive nature of tasks, average levels of Agreeableness also appear to correspond with higher team performance. Teams composed of agreeable members thus seem to have higher per- formance because they cooperate more and work together better. Barrick et al. (1998) also found Extraversion, regardless of the method of operationalization (mean, variance, minimum, maxi- mum), to correspond with higher levels of social cohesion. All methods of operationalization for Extraversion, except variance, also corresponded with reduced team conﬂict. However, only the Extraversion minimum score corresponded with team perfor- mance, with the inclusion of one very introverted person harming performance. Barry and Stewart (1997), using the proportion of individuals high on Extraversion as a variance indicator, found teams consisting of approximately half extraverts to have the high- est performance. Extraversion does appear to translate into dif- ferences in cohesion and conﬂict, which is supportive of the notion that this individual-level trait translates into a team-level trait. More- over, Extraversion appears to aggregate in both a dominant and an additive manner.

Agreeableness and Extraversion thus represent two interper- sonal traits that have important team-level effects. This is not sur- prising given that interpersonal traits can be exhibited only in the presence of other people. Kenrick and Funder (1988) concluded that the presence of even a single individual with very desirable or very undesirable interpersonal traits can inﬂuence relationships within an entire group. In accordance with this observation, in- terpersonal traits appear to combine at least somewhat in a domi- nant fashion, whereby one individual strongly inﬂuences the team trait. The overall trait for the team is thus quite dependent on the interpersonal traits of individual team members, particularly if those individual traits are extreme.

Given that conscientiousness generally relates to performance across tasks and roles, it seems reasonable to predict that team-level conscientiousness will form in an additive fashion. This is sup-