# 138 PERSONALITY AND WORK

has been conducted under this framework. Carver and White (1994) have created a paper-and-pencil measure (the Behavioral Inhibition and Behavioral Activation Scales, BIS/BAS) of individ- ual differences in the reactivity of the two systems. Davidson (1995) and Sutton and Davidson (1997) have good summaries of the na- ture of the systems and a brief history of the research that has been conducted.

Davidson (1995) describes the anatomical location of the two systems. He suggests that individual differences in the cortical ac- tivity in different areas of the brain are related to the emotional re- activity to positive and negative stimuli. The frontal or anterior areas of the right hemisphere are responsible for withdrawal re- sponses, and the anterior areas of the left hemisphere are respon- sible for approach behavior. Sensitivity to positive and negative stimuli is thought to produce affective reactions and, in turn, be- havioral approach and avoidance behaviors (Davidson, 1995).

Exposure to positive and negative stimuli seems to produce the predicted effects on cortical activity in the appropriate areas. David- son (1995) has shown that the relative cortical activity is an indi- vidual difference that predicts the intensity of reactions to positive and negative stimuli. These cortical activity asymmetries are more highly related to paper-and-pencil measures of the BIS and BAS, such as Carver and White’s BIS/BAS (1994), than they are with measures of positive and negative affectivity. The underlying sys- tems are systems of reactivity, not stable affect differences.

Gable, Reis, and Eliott (2000) examined daily experience of positive and negative events and daily reports of positive and neg- ative affect. Consistent with expectations, they found in two stud- ies that individual differences in levels of the BIS (using Carver and White’s BIS/BAS measure) moderated the relationship between daily experience of negative events and daily reports of negative affect. Inconsistent with expectations, however, in neither study was a moderating effect of differences in behavioral activation on the relationship between positive events and positive affect found. Cognitive appraisal theory and research suggests that discrete emotional experiences are the result of a primary appraisal process and a secondary appraisal process. Primary appraisal involves as- sessment of goal relevance and determines the direction and am- plitude of emotional response. Secondary appraisal involves