# RESEARCH THEMES FOR THE FUTURE 337

Another way to think about outcomes is to evaluate the role of personality using two critical questions: “Are you able to do it?” and “Are you happy doing it?” Research on personality in work settings tends to focus on the former question (satisfactoriness) rather than the latter (satisfaction). Thus, today we have greater understand- ing of how personality relates to satisfactoriness or performance at work. And yet it is also important to consider how personality af- fects life and job satisfaction and other affective constructs, as Lucas and Diener (Chapter Two) and Weiss and Kurek (Chapter Five) attest. Recent meta-analyses illustrate that personality traits, particularly Emotional Stability, Extraversion, and Conscientious- ness, are important predictors of job satisfaction (Judge, Heller, & Mount, 2002) and different facets of subjective well-being (DeNeve & Cooper, 1998). Similarly, in this book, Lucas and Diener (Chap- ter Two) review ﬁndings related to worker happiness and produc- tivity. To illustrate this further, they show that happy workers have many beneﬁts when interacting with the world, but the impact of these individual differences on worker productivity depends on the nature of the tasks the workers perform. Happy workers may be more talkative and friendly, but whether this affects work outcomes depends on the nature of the tasks performed. Another recent meta-analysis (Barrick, Mount, & Gupta, in press) reveals that al- though personality traits (the FFM) share some common variance with interests (the RIASEC), the two sets of dispositional measures are not as highly correlated as we might expect. This ﬁnding un- derscores the need to examine the unique effects of personality on satisfaction and other affective variables.

Lucas and Diener (Chapter Two), Weiss and Kurek (Chapter Five), and Hough (Chapter Eleven) discuss a number of different ways researchers might approach the question regarding the na- ture of the relationship between personality and satisfaction or af- fect. Weiss and Kurek’s emphasis on striving to understand the process through which personality inﬂuences the generation of emotional change, as well as the consequence of these behavioral and emotional changes, is particularly promising and is likely to lead to a number of fruitful scientiﬁc inquiries. As researchers, we need to recognize that only when there is a high degree of corre- spondence achieved on both of these dimensions—that is, we are