data/clean/behavioral_economics_1__chunk0010.md, before:

# Colander, 2005).

For example, Adam Smith believed there was a disproportionate aversion to losses which is a central

feature of Kahneman and Tversky’s prospect theory. Smith wrote (1759, III, ii, pp. 176-7):

Pain ... is, in almost all cases, a more pungent sensation than the opposite and correspondent pleasure.

The one almost always depresses us much more below the ordinary, or what may be called the natural state of

our happiness, than the other ever raises us above it.

Smith (1759, II, ii, ii, p. 121) also anticipates Thaler’s (1980) seminal2 analysis of the insensitivity to

opportunity costs, compared to out-of-pocket costs:

…breach of property, therefore, theft and robbery, which take from us what we are possessed of, are

greater crimes than breach of contract, which only disappoints us of what we expected.

Why did behavioral insights like these get left out of the neoclassical revolution? A possible answer,

suggested by Bruni and Sugden (2005), is that Vilfredo Pareto won an argument among economists in the early

1900’s about how deeply economic theories should be anchored in psychological reality. Pareto thought

ignoring psychology was not only acceptable, but was also necessary. In an 1897 letter he wrote:

It is an empirical fact that the natural sciences have progressed only when they have taken secondary

principles as their point of departure, instead of trying to discover the essence of things. ... Pure

2 Many people regard Thaler’s 1980 paper as the starting point of behavioral economics per se, since it drew on psychology but was clearly focused on the economics of consumer choice (see Thaler, 1999 for an update on the same topic).

4

political economy has therefore a great interest in relying as little as possible on the domain of

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/behavioral_economics_1__chunk0010.md, after:

---
source_path: behavioral_economics_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 839721c408d5a9efb8698113ac6461350d54670a
title: behavioral_economics_1
---
# naturally-occurring field data.

Section II is a brief digression reminding us that behavioral economics is something of a return to old

paths in economic thought which were not taken. Section III reviews the tools and ideas that are the current

canon of what is best established (see also Conlisk, 1996, Camerer, Loewenstein, and Rabin, 2004). Section IV

is a reminder that aggregate outcomes—behavior in firms, and markets—matter and considers how

imperfections in rationality cumulate or disappear at those levels. Section V discussing “franchises” of

behavioral economics in applied areas, and some examples of growth in theory and field empirics. Section VI

discusses neuroeconomics and section VII concludes.

II. Behavioral paths not taken

3

Why did behavioral economics not emerge earlier in the history of economic thought? The answer is

that it did: Jeremy Bentham, Adam Smith, Irving Fisher, William Jevons and many others drew heavily on

psychological intuitions. But those intuitions were largely left behind in the development of mathematical tools

of economic analysis, consumer theory and general equilibrium (e.g., Ashraf, Camerer and Loewenstein, 2005;
