data/clean/behavioral_economics_1__chunk0047.md, before:

# unskilled.

Public finance: Behavioral public finance asks how limits on consumer and voter rationality influence

taxation and public spending. Two pioneering examples are Krishna and Slemrod (2003) and McCaffrey’s

(1994) paper on cognitive psychology and taxation. The central principle is that some taxes are more visible

than others. Politicians exploit these differences in searching for ways to increase tax receipts. A full theory of

taxation and spending therefore depends on a good account of which types of taxes are easy and hard to impose

(well-organized interest group competition will matter too, of course), and how astute revenue-seeking

politicians are at understanding investor tax psychology.

Behavioral public economics is also likely to be the franchise that most squarely confronts issues of

welfare analysis in behavioral economics. In the standard theory, what consumers choose is taken as a

tautological definition of welfare (i.e., if consumers are rational, then what they choose is also what is best for

them). Thinking about psychology permits the possibility that private choices do not maximize welfare. For

example, Berridge and Robinson (2003) suggest that separate brain areas control “wanting”—choice—and

“liking”—hedonic evaluation. If liking is true welfare, then neural separability of these processes implies that it

is possible for choice and welfare to be different. The obvious places to look are decisions by adolescents and

addicts (Bernheim and Rangel,2004), and potential mistakes in rare decisions, or when it is difficult to learn

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/behavioral_economics_1__chunk0047.md, after:

---
source_path: behavioral_economics_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7731605014ef481cc9c40467ccb2c7ac6efdb8ef
title: behavioral_economics_1
---
## implementation of the idealized contracts in agency theory.

Many experiments have studied reciprocity (or gift-exchange) in simple versions of labor markets. In the

simplest case, firms prepay a wage and workers then choose effort which is costly for them but valuable for

firms. If there is an excess supply of workers and no scope for reputation-building15, self-interested workers

should be happy to get jobs but should also shirk; firms should anticipate this and offer a minimum wage.

Empirically, however, when effort is very valuable to firms and not too costly to workers, firms pay wages far

above the minimum, and workers reciprocate by exerting more effort when they were paid a higher wage. When

workers are identified to firms, and firms can repeatedly hire good workers, Brown, Falk and Fehr (2004) show

how a “two-tier” insider-outsider economy can emerge experimentally.

15 Healy (2004) shows that the amount of reciprocity by workers is sensitive to the shared gains from effort. Charness, Frechette and Kagel (2004) show that framing of the instructions can lower reciprocity. Healy also shows in a simple model how a perception of correlation of reciprocal worker types can induce gift exchange even when the wage-effort game is repeated only finitely. His important insight is that type correlation induces “group reputation”.

22

Data like these are a reminder that intrinsic motivations like reciprocity matter and can be quite strong.

Furthermore, adding extrinsic incentives can be harmful if they “crowd out” intrinsic incentives (a phenomenon

long-studied in psychology), so that standard models get the sign wrong in predicting effects of extrinsic

incentive changes. Benabou and Tirole (2003) approach crowding out in a different way. They show that

higher incentives can induce lower effort because high wages signal that a job is very hard, or a worker is
