data/clean/beo_chap7_1__chunk0168.md, before:

# 7.7 CONCLUSION

This chapter is about both applying behavioral economics to organizations, and

enriching behavioral economics by asking questions that are specific to the roles

of workers and managers in organizations. This chapter is less of a review of what

is known than it is a research agenda, with more questions than answers. This

conclusion recaps some of the common themes.

The first question is how to complicate the basic agency model. One complication

is that agents’ preferences (i.e., effort disutility and reservation wages) may be sensi-

tive to how jobs are described or how wage offers and job choices are elicited. Limits

on greed and self-interest imply that people often like to help their friends and harm

their enemies, and dislike unequal treatment. Precise models of social preference

that have been carefully honed on experimental data from simple games would need

to be plugged into organizational economics applications. In the laboratory, prefer- ences are often sensitive to reference points, such as previous wages (due perhaps to habit formation) and wages of other workers. There is evidence of such effects from labor practices (e.g., two-tier wage deals in financially distressed firms) and executive compensation. Workers also seem to care about fair or just procedures for

determining outcomes. The strength of these preferences in field data and organi-

zational design responses has, however, not been studied thoroughly. Psychological

influences on judgments of causality (in agency-theory terms, inferring agent effort from output) are also important. Hindsight bias, overattribution of cause to workers rather than luck, asymmetric attribution (taking credit and exporting blame), dif- fusion of blame across a large group, and overconfidence about skill may all play

important roles, and these have not been studied much in organizational contexts.

272

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/beo_chap7_1__chunk0168.md, after:

---
source_path: beo_chap7_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e5c763b426e65138ae2a069cc23a0a36d5c80dae
title: beo_chap7_1
---
# CHAPTER SEVEN

labor contracts, especially with sorting among high-ability and low-ability workers.

Their argument is strengthened (and more robust) if we introduce heterogeneity

in self-confidence among workers. If some workers are overly convinced of their

own abilities (and their overconfidence is not negatively correlated with ability),

tournaments become a particularly cheap form of compensation. Overconfident

individuals will overestimate the expected value of entering the tournament outcome

and will be willing to accept lower current compensation.

Option-based compensation and rank-order based promotion are two examples

of how firms can reduce their compensation costs at the expense of employees who

are too optimistic about the firm’s prospects. These examples assume implicitly that

the organization itself—or the top management teams of an organization—is not

affected by biases observed in individuals further down the hierarchy or outside the

organization, but may remedy or even exploit them.
