data/clean/beo_chap7_1__chunk0072.md, before:

# butions.

Falk and Ichino (2003) measured peer effects on output in an experiment, exploit-

ing the ability to assign workers to pairs randomly, which avoids the problem of

endogenous peer selection that is typical in most (though not all) field data sets.

They recruited subjects to stuff letters into envelopes for four hours for a fixed fee

(with no performance bonus). Some subjects did the activity by themselves; others

did it in the presence of a randomly assigned peer. Random pairing led to closely

matched output. The absolute deviation of output within each actual peer group

averaged 20.6—much smaller than 99% of simulated absolute deviations within

artificial pairs composed of solo subjects. Pairing workers also raised output on

average (about 10%). Pairs were more likely to escalate each others’ output than to

tacitly collude by goofing off. The estimated effect of a one-unit increase in output

on the peer’s output was 0.14 units, close to the 0.14-0.18 estimated from field data

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/beo_chap7_1__chunk0072.md, after:

---
source_path: beo_chap7_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 02f76ab7a94274380124ed21be9de92c5c60799b
title: beo_chap7_1
---
# 7.3.2 Peers and Groups

One place in which social preferences have entered labor economics is in the con-

cept of “peer pressure.” Peer pressure is often invoked to explain why group-based

incentives are surprisingly successful despite the incentive to free ride. For example,

Knez and Simester (2001) note that a $65/month bonus for all Continental Airlines

employees, for improved on-time-arrival rates, actually worked, even though any

one employee’s performance has a minuscule effect on the firm’s overall on-time

performance. They note the important influence of immediate pressure by peers to

improve performance (see also Kandel and Lazear 1992). The experimental litera-

ture on public goods games with sanctions also shows the power of peer pressure

(see, for example, Yamagishi 1988; Fehr and Gachter 2000). When subjects can

punish others at a cost to themselves, they often do so, which drives contributions

up. Note that not every subject punishes, but enough do so to create higher contri-
