---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d8401292d4903bee6b30fa38ae93890b4415b3d6
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# Title VII (race) 25%

There is some legal ambiguity involved in the Canadian reasonable notice provisions, but it does not compare with the level of ambiguity faced by PCO U.S. reasonable notice requirements are blurred somewhat by the case- by-case, evolving nature of court decisions. Nevertheless, reasonable notice law is well-established in Canada, and its requirements are summarized in books providing Canadian employers detailed advice about how much reasonable notice compensation is required (Mole 1990). In contrast, PCO U.S. faces a multitude of claims under many laws, some quite recent and many whose interpretation remains in flux. For example, PCO U.S. has to contend with the ADA, an ambitious new law often-criticized on the grounds that it places unclear, but potentially very costly requirements on employers. Moreover, the large number of antidiscrimination lawsuits in the United States constantly generate new law and ambiguous requirements as the federal courts continue to redefine employers' expectations. In the face of legal ambiguity, both PCO Canada and PCO U.S. have attempted to tailor their termination policies to limit legal risk. However, PCO U.S. faces the more difficult task because it faces more lawsuits directly, and has to keep abreast of a far larger number of legal precedents. PCO U.S. must employ a strategy that effectively defends against the threat of multiple causes of action. To reduce legal ambiguity, PCO Canada employs the practice of giving severance packages that tend to be more generous than the law requires. Compared to the costs of a lawsuit, PCO Canada saves money this way. PCO U.S. attempts to reduce the uncertainty by establishing large in-house bureaucracies (a costly endeavor), by employing more legal and quasi-legal personnel, and by employing more expensive procedures such as the routine AAO consultation, in order to limit legal risk.

Some sociolegal scholars have suggested that American business's fear of litigation is exaggerated, both in general (Galanter 1983) and in particular
