---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 02ec0efbc2edcb6e468299b854726c5d4256987a
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 249

the work force in the two countries although it is not as great as one might expect. In Canada, 12.3 percent of PCO employees are ``visible minorities'' as opposed to about 18 percent racial minorities in PCO U.S.

In the course of the research, we conducted thirty-two interviews with PCO's human resources staff in both the United States and Canada as well as the corporate officials involved with termination, including the affirma- tive action officers, the legal departments, and human resources managers in most of the regional offices.2 In Canada, we were able to read the personnel files of all the employees who left PCO over a two-year period. In the United States, we did not have access to these files, but we were provided summary figures and quantitative estimates that correspond to the results generated by the analysis of the Canadian employment files.

Some scholars have argued that the liberal theory of employment-at-will has been slowly eroded by common law and statutory developments, but the United States retains the employment-at-will presumption for private sector, nonunionized employees working without an employment contract. Canada, in the European tradition that emphasizes continuity of employ- ment, provides greater common law protection to employees in that country, requiring that an employee receive reasonable notice prior to termination unless ``just cause'' for immediate dismissal is shown (Mole 1990; Arthurs, et al. 1993). There are various exceptions to the common law standards in both countries. For example, in the United States, employees are protected by the employee manual which creates an obligation on the part of the employer. In Toussaint v Blue Cross & Blue Shield (1980), the Supreme Court declared that employee manuals and oral statements made by employers can create exceptions to the common law presumption of employment-at-will because they are considered contracts that the employer is obliged to follow.

Additionally, in both countries, statutes protect employees against dis- crimination on the basis of race, gender, age, and disability, although PCO's experience suggests that claims based on these causes of action are much less frequent in Canada. A further example of greater protections afforded Canadian workers includes statutory protection from discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation in a number of provinces including Ontario.3 Finally, the much higher rate of unionization in Canada provides increased protection for workers not shared by their American counterparts.

An employee has three options when forced to separate, or is terminated, from PCO. She can: (1) leave PCO without contesting the termination; (2) contest the termination in some way that does not include filing a lawsuit; or (3) contest the termination by filing a lawsuit. Given the different common law presumptions in the two countries, one might construct two opposing hypotheses. First, considering the greater breadth of protections in Canada, an observer might expect a very low level of termination disputing. Or, considering the somewhat broader legal protections for Canadian employees, one might expect that PCO Canada would experience more legal
