## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 257

The calculus about whether or not to enter the complicated, often-costly legal system in either country is based on a prediction about the likelihood of prevailing coupled with the damage award that might be granted. Thus, the higher the potential damage awards, the more likely an employee will pursue legal action ± especially if the direct costs of pursuing the action are, as explained above, not very costly to the employee. In Canada, civil litigants are not constitutionally guaranteed the right to a jury trial (Crupi v Royal Ottawa 1986), but a provincial statute in Ontario gives a party the prima facie right to request a jury (Courts of Justice Act of 1984). No other province provides this protection for parties to civil litigation. Thus, more cases in the United States will be tried before a jury which leads to higher awards, providing yet another incentive for the U.S. employee to litigate.

In addition to fewer jury trials in Canada, there is also more alternative dispute resolution (ADR). While ADR is often attempted in the United States, it is enforced in Canada by court and government initiatives. For example, in Ontario, the provincial government has instituted a policy whereby eight out of ten cases filed are diverted to a mediator (Financial Post Daily 1995b). ADR is more expensive than litigation on an hourly basis because the parties have to pay the costs of facilities and the mediator's time, but the overall savings are great because of the reduced amount of time it takes to reach a conclusion. According to one business periodical, ``the costs of mediation are typically less than 50 percent of litigation costs, with full resolution being achieved in less than a quarter of the time'' (Hendler 1995:7).

In contrast, in the United States, plaintiffs enjoy the option of a jury trial. Although ADR is becoming more common in the United States when both the employee and the employer prefer that system, the government does not compel those with disputes to attempt some alternative form of dispute resolution first as is the case in Canada.

(d) Method of Recovery A further disincentive for the Canadian employee to sue their employer is the method of recovery under the Employment Standards Act. Under this statute, alleged offenses of the Employment Standards Act are referred to the director of employment standards, who appoints referees to adjudicate the cases and provide for remedies. Although there are provisions for administrative review, the decision is binding on the parties and not subject to judicial review (Employment Standards Act 1990:§§ 60-70). Moreover, this system is notoriously lengthy and ineffective.

Unlike the system in the United States in which the employee may proceed directly to court, the Canadian employee faces this regulatory mechanism. Again, the barriers to the judicial system are higher for the Canadian employees. This undoubtedly affects the number of employee related lawsuits in the Canadian judicial system.