---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ae865b318210800b30ac4d955ca9d84dd27b357e
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 277

with respect to the common law claim of wrongful discharge (Dertouzos, Holland, & Ebener 1988; Edelman, Abraham, & Erlanger 1992). For two reasons, however, these arguments would provide no comfort to PCO U.S. officials. First, it is not common law claims that most frequently plague PCO U.S. Anti-discrimination lawsuits are the biggest threat. Second, PCO U.S. officials are not concerned with data in the aggregate. They are con- cerned with costs to PCO. So, while it may be true that the aggregate costs to companies of wrongful termination suits are quite low per employee, if PCO U.S. is the company against which a very large jury award is granted, then PCO U.S. is the one that has to pay the award, suffer the adverse publicity generated by such jury decisions, and/or pay for the appeal. Thus, although the possibility may be statistically small, PCO U.S. officials, following a rational ``mini-max'' strategy, operate as though they must protect PCO from costly lawsuits and the occasional very large jury award. PCO U.S. officials believe that this is the most efficient way to operate because there are so many costs, in addition to the potentially large jury awards, that surround termination lawsuits. PCO U.S. officials do not believe, quite plausibly, that the threat is sufficiently remote to ignore. One cost of a publicized lawsuit, PCO executives repeatedly reported, would be reduced morale among current employees, as people take sides.
