# 278 LAW & POLICY July 1999

employees ultimately dismissed), and by offering severance packages that are more generous than those offered by PCO U.S. The costs incurred by PCO Canada prior to termination, however, seem to lead to a less adversarial posttermination process, lower ex ante legal costs, and lower legal costs arising from post-termination legal claims. When disputes occur with PCO Canada after a termination, they can often be resolved by enhancing the severance package, which does not require extensive aid from legal professionals. In PCO U.S., while payroll expenditures on questionable employees are much lower in the pretermination phase, the threat of postdismissal disputing requires more investment in legal and quasi-legal professionals necessary to defend against these claims.

To best determine which of the models for termination is more efficient, we would have to better understand the costs incurred by PCO Canada in providing the rather generous severance packages and the actual costs in making the more expensive structural and incurred by PCO U.S. procedural alterations to incremental discipline. Given the nature of the organizational and procedural ``extras'' observed at PCO U.S., it seems safe to say that PCO U.S. probably spends more money per terminated employee due to the termination infrastructure we see in PCO U.S. Although the exact costs remain unknown (and are probably unknowable), they are being directed differently. In PCO Canada, higher expenditures are channeled to employees in the form of more generous granting of probation and more generous severance; they are ``paying workers.'' In PCO U.S., the money is channeled to the work of the legal and quasi-legal professionals employed by PCO U.S; they are ``paying lawyers.''

LAURA BETH NIELSEN is a Research Fellow at the American Bar Foundation. She received her Ph.D. from the Jurisprudence & Social Policy Program at the University of California, Berkeley where she also earned her J.D. (Boalt Hall, School of Law). Her dissertation research was a sociolegal analysis of offensive public speech. Her published work includes articles on reproduction and the politics of welfare reform and date rape.