---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1e3413ef4a388733ac52f020576e6c2fd4df7827
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# 256 LAW & POLICY July 1999

Unfortunately for all parties involved, the EEOC constantly faces a backlog of over 100,000 charges (ibid.). One study of 782,000 discrimination complaints filed with the EEOC and various state equivalents found that the average complaint languishes more than one year before any action is taken (Eisler 1995). Additionally, the average time for a meritless complaint to be dismissed is thirteen months (ibid.). Of complaints filed, about 66 percent are ultimately dismissed as meritless (ibid.). Although terminated employees whose complaints are not being acted on have the option of pulling out of the agency and pursuing the action in court, only employees who can afford the attorneys fees and court costs truly enjoy this option.

PCO officials report that very few cases are resolved through the time- consuming agency process. The wait alone provides some incentive for disgruntled employees to attempt a compromise with PCO. Typically, however, the employee has moved on to another job and can afford the luxury, indeed the no-risk gamble, of simply waiting it out and hoping that her complaint is eventually deemed meritorious.

In principle, availability of agencies makes it easier and cheaper for employees to take legal action in the United States on antidiscrimination claims ± it's free. The costs to the employer are, however great and occur whether the EEOC investigates or not. Simply filing the complaint triggers expensive responsive action on the part of PCO,5 so that even claims later dropped or deemed meritless are expensive for PCO.

Additionally, all of the EEOC investigation and PCO's documents regarding that investigation are ``discoverable,'' meaning that the terminated employee has the right to gain access to these documents as her case progresses. Thus, filing an EEOC claim is a way for an employee who only has suspicions of discrimination regarding her termination to have sig- nificant investigation conducted for her at no cost. PCO Canada employees enjoy no such option. Although the EEOC seems to be largely ineffective in resolving disputes for terminated employees, the way that the agency operates allows the employee valuable information at a very low cost.

When a violation of the Human Rights Code (1990) is lodged in Canada, the commission established by the statute typically provides an investigating officer. As is the case in the United States, an investigation is conducted, a report is filed, and a tribunal may be established if evidence of a violation is shown. The difference is that the employee is locked into this process and cannot take her case outside the commission.6 Thus, despite similar remedies and similar difficulties obtaining a remedy, the PCO U.S. employee has greater ease pursuing a complaint on these grounds because she can use the EEOC to gather evidence, but can usually opt out of the process and pursue the claim in federal court.
