## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 275

uncertainty and more punitive legal sanctions in the United States. Greater legal uncertainty coupled with potentially vast legal exposure for PCO leads PCO U.S. officials to employ a strategy in which they minimize exposure to maximum liability. Minimizing their exposure is an adaptation to the U.S. legal environment, which embodies the problems of legal uncertainty and punitive legal sanctions.

The cross-national differences exhibited by PCO in its operations demonstrate a response to different levels of legal uncertainty. Some of the sources of legal uncertainty in the United States have already been alluded to in this chapter, but they merit mentioning here as well. First, in PCO U.S., executives must act defensively to prevent claims that can arise from a multitude of statutory and common law theories, while PCO Canada really faces a legitimate threat from only one cause of action. Second, PCO U.S. officials say that there is the uncertainty inherent in jury awards. Because PCO U.S. cannot accurately guess the amount of potential jury awards and there is no way they can estimate the total costs of an employment dispute, PCO U.S. operates on the assumption that it is best to avoid these situations.

PCO Canada officials operate in much the same way, attempting to avoid potential legal liability. However, because there is a high level of certainty about the type of claim they may face, PCO Canada can accomplish this goal with less expense. While corporate policy in both countries seeks to minimize the legal risk to the maximum legal exposure, the practical implementation of this policy varies according to the demands of the legal system in which PCO is operating. In other words, the policy gives rise to different strategies due to differences in the nature of the legal risks, and it is more expensive to employ these strategies in the United States.

According to the PCO U.S. attorney, there are five causes of action that most often lead to lawsuits: age, gender, race, ERISA, and ADA claims. It is interesting to note that the common law causes of action available to PCO U.S. employees are not utilized. In fact, when specifically asked about PCO U.S.'s response to these sorts of claims, the PCO U.S. attorney stated definitively that her experience has not shown those causes of action to be a problem for PCO and she does not worry about them (personal interview). She had no pending cases in those areas of law.

In PCO Canada, on the other hand, there is really only concern about one cause of action, the ``reasonable notice'' cause of action.18 In the two years of employment records that we examined for the Canadian human resources department of PCO there were only two lawsuits and both were reasonable notice lawsuits. Also, all of PCO Canada's postsepara- tion disputes that did not lead to a lawsuit concerned the reasonable notice issue. If one is only looking at the variety of causes of action that PCO must be prepared to face, it is clear that PCO U.S. officials face greater legal uncertainty. This is not, however, the only source of greater legal un- certainty faced by PCO U.S.