## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 259

fairly ambiguous. The ambiguity is multiplied because crucial decisions often are made by a diverse array of juries, whose decisions are not explained and are largely unreviewable. This leaves employers unclear about the best way to protect themselves from liability. Certainly, many employers may guess wrong. One study of 120 California jury verdicts between 1980 and 1986 found that 68 percent of plaintiffs won their wrongful discharge lawsuits; awards averaged $650,000 (although the median award was $177,000) (Dertouzos, Holland & Ebener 1988). The largest award was $8 million (ibid.).

Subsequent research about jury awards for wrongful discharge found, however, that awards vary according to jurisdiction (Edelman, Abraham & Erlanger 1992). More interesting, perhaps was the finding that the construction of the threat of wrongful discharge in professional personnel journals is extremely inflated (ibid.). In a study of nine professional personnel journals, Edelman, Abraham, and Erlanger (1992) found inflated reporting of both the rate at which employees win their wrongful discharge cases and the commensurate jury awards. Consistent with these findings, PCO U.S. officials focus myopically on the large award, the one receiving lots of media attention and attention from professional publications (personal interviews). More close to home, it is the damages claimed in lawsuits filed against PCO itself on which PCO U.S. officials focus. Thus, although some scholars argue that business need only invest $2.56 per employee to prevent wrongful termination suits, any individual company ± PCO included ± must employ a strategy not based on the aggregate data, but on the actual costs that may be incurred. Because all companies do not collectively pool money to pay these awards, PCO tailors its termination policy to prevent any (even a small) chance of losing a lawsuit with a large award.

The majority of the cases that PCO faces, however, originate in EEOC claims (personal interviews). In a study of Title VII race-based lawsuits, Shea & Gardner, a large Washington, D.C., law firm, found that plaintiffs were awarded compensatory and punitive damages in sixty-eight of 576 reported cases between 1980 and 1989 (U.S. Congress 1990). Of those sixty- eight cases, in only three did compensatory and punitive damages combined amount to more than $200,000 (ibid.).

As with the common law claims, PCO U.S. officials focus only on the large antidiscrimination awards and calibrate their prevention strategy on the basis of the large awards. Thus, it makes economic sense in the minds of PCO officials for the company to allocate greater resources to prevent the worst possible outcome ± no matter how remote the chances of that outcome are in fact.