# B. ORGANIZATIONAL DIFFERENCES

Although the termination philosophy of PCO does not vary cross-nationally, the organization of the human resources department varies greatly. In PCO U.S., there are in-house attorneys who are utilized in a different way than their Canadian counterparts; and there is an affirmative action office that is active in the termination process. PCO Canada has no such counterpart.

These structural differences represent costs expended by PCO U.S. that are not incurred by PCO Canada. They indicate that there is a need to have more in-house offices and officials to handle legal and quasi-legal questions. These additional offices and officers are required, at least in part due to the higher rates of serious disputing in the United States.

- 1. Lawyers

In Canada, when either the human resources representative or manager believes that legal advice is required, termination issues are brought to an outside attorney. That occurs routinely at the probation phase of the IDP, and sometimes at other stages. For example, a PCO Canada human resources representative was approached by a PCO Canada line manager who claimed to be having trouble with a female employee; that was because, the human resources representative later learned, she was not responsive to the manager's sexual advances. The human resources representative, who had been working with the line manager, had to change gears dramatically and immediately sought legal advice. More typically, however, attorney contact in Canada arises at the probation or termination stage, is brief,13 and is conducted by telephone. In fact, one of the most senior officials in the Canadian human resources office told us that she had never been to their attorney's office.

In the United States, in contrast, attorney contact is more frequent, more substantive, and occurs earlier in the termination process. In the United States, PCO has in-house corporate counsel present every day in the corporate headquarters. This is further evidence that suggests PCO U.S. is more concerned than PCO Canada about legal problems arising from terminations, and, hence, has a greater willingness to expend resources on legal counsel.

- 2. The Affirmative Action Office

Unlike PCO Canada, PCO U.S. has a specialized affirmative action office (AAO). It employs one half-time and two full-time executives who perform the tasks required by the EEOC and the Office of Federal Contract Com- pliance Program (OFCCP). The affirmative action office personnel split their time between termination issues and EEOC regulatory requirements (which include quarterly reports about the demographics of the work force,