# 258 LAW & POLICY July 1999

- 3. Perceived Legal Risk to the Employer

In both countries, PCO's desire to avoid a lawsuit is shaped by the expenses incurred from a lawsuit. Although some scholars argue that the costs of litigating and paying claims for some sorts of wrongful dismissal lawsuits are not as great as commonly perceived (Edelman, Abraham & Erlanger 1992), even these conservative estimates of litigation costs dwarf the cost of wrongful dismissal suits in Canada. For example, one Canadian study conducted by the Civil Justice Review found that the typical cost to a plaintiff to pursue a civil claim is $38,000 Canadian (Dertouzos, Holland & Ebener 1988). In a study of 120 wrongful dismissal jury trials in California, the average cost to a company defending a dismissal case that goes to trial was over U.S.$80,000 (ibid.). Additionally, the cost of defending such a suit was found to be rising at 15 to 24 percent annually (ibid.). These figures do not even include the costs of the award, if any.

The damages claimed in civil litigation are also much lower in Canada than in the United States. For example, the average claim (in Ontario courts) is C$197,000 Canadian (Financial Post Daily 1995a), while the average wrongful termination award is U.S.$650,000 in the United States (Dertouzos, Holland & Ebener 1988). Although the average U.S. award is inflated due to the statistical dominance of a few, very large awards, these large awards tend to push PCO toward minimizing their risk of incurring the maximum liability. Thus, despite the fact that Dertouzos, Holland, and Ebener, the authors of the U.S. study, conclude that, ``the annual cost of jury trials [in cases with a wrongful dismissal cause of action], including legal fees, amounts to only $2.56 per worker'' (ibid.: ix), it is not the low-end or ``mean'' estimates that concern PCO. It is the threat, however real, of the large jury award (the highest score in the distribution of known previous outcomes) that drives the termination process at PCO.

Although Dertouzos, Holland, and Ebener conclude that the aggregate costs of wrongful termination litigation in the United States are not as high as human resources professionals may think (ibid.: 47), they are definitely higher than they are in Canada. Moreover, PCO U.S. typically does not face causes of action based on common law claims. Over 65 percent of PCO U.S.'s termination litigation stems not from wrongful dismissal causes of action, but, rather, from the more costly antidiscrimination causes of action mediated through the EEOC (personal interviews). PCO is not unusual in this respect; litigation of these costly actions is increasing. In fact, the growth of employment discrimination litigation in the United States has been estimated at 2,166 percent between 1970 and 1989 (Donohue & Siegelman 1991). This growth is dramatic when compared to the average growth in the general federal civil caseload for the same period, about 125 percent (ibid.).

Because the implied contract theory of wrongful discharge is a common law creation ± developed by the courts rather than by legislatures ± the law not only varies from state to state, but the substance of the law can also be