---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9ccebdbce7ef77d84d1fa517fd6edb7253c7e2e2
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# (a) Counsel's Fees

Lawyer compensation arrangements affect employees' ability to mobilize the law to redress their termination grievances. In the United States, lawyers can and do take cases on a contingency fee basis, whereby an attorney charges a client nothing at the beginning of a lawsuit but agrees to take a percentage of an award if and only if one is granted. A typical U.S. attorney's contingency fee is about 40 percent, making the attorney's fee, if the suit is successful, large enough for many U.S. attorneys to take chances on weak cases. Although most Canadian provinces allow some form of the contingency fee system, Ontario prohibits these lawyer compensation arrangements (Solicitors Act 1980). Because the majority of PCO Canada employees work and live in Ontario and because PCO Canada's corporate headquarters are located there, Ontario is the province with which PCO Canada is most concerned. Thus, many terminated PCO U.S. employees have a low-cost or no-cost way to pursue legal action that is not available to the majority of PCO Canada employees.

The ``loser pays'' system of awarding trial costs is another institutional difference that makes it less likely that Canadians will pursue legal claims to trial and, if they do get to trial, encourage Canadians to make earlier, more realistic assessments of their likelihood of success. The loser pays system can affect litigants in a number of ways. Cost sanctions (costs awarded at the end of the trial, requiring the loser to pay some of the winner's legal costs) are generally more severe in Canada than in the United States and costs
