# C. PROCEDURAL DIFFERENCES

PCO's termination process also varies between the two countries. In the United States, PCO's process involves more work, more time, and higher costs. The reason, it appears, is that in the United States there is a more complex and detailed body of legal rules surrounding termination, more legal uncertainty, and a more threatening and more frequently activated litigation system.

PCO Canada seeks waivers from dismissed employees without concern for increasing the risk of future litigation by the employee; this is not the case in PCO U.S. In termination cases, formal consultations with legal or quasi-legal professionals are more frequent in PCO U.S., and they involve more people. In PCO U.S., these conferrals are more open-ended and deliberative than the rather directed consultations that occur in PCO Canada.

- 1. Use of Waivers and Severance Packages

There are cross-national differences in the frequency with which PCO asks a terminated employee to sign a ``waiver'' document, stating that the employee accepts the terms of the severance and will not pursue legal action.14 In PCO U.S., the terminated employee only rarely is asked to sign a ``waiver,'' and the process is more constrained by law. Waivers are intimately connected with severance packages because, in Canada, the severance package is the source of all of PCO Canada's litigation. Thus, when a severance package is agreed upon by both parties, PCO Canada officials seek to have the employee sign the waiver which states that this is agreeable to her.

In PCO U.S., the terms of the severance package are determined according to PCO U.S.'s ``plan.'' The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) requires employers to adhere strictly to the terms of their formal employee benefit plans. There is little room for negotiation; PCO does not have the discretion to ``sweeten the deal'' by supplementing one person's benefits. Thus, in PCO U.S. the termination meeting is simply a notification rather than a dialogue. The severance package in the United States, therefore, is more limited. It includes the payment of any pension or