---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3e51b2e3a08bb9b2274fdf178dfaa5f8e99b1910
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# terminate about

- 2. PCO's Incremental Discipline Process

More common, however, is termination for waning performance. When an employee's performance declines, PCO policy calls for implementation of the ``incremental discipline process'' or ``IDP.'' This process is designed to provide the problem employee with notice about the inadequacy of her performance, sufficient time and resources to ensure that the expectations placed on her by the company are clear and realizable, and a fair chance for the employee to rehabilitate her performance.

IDP imposes requirements that are justified by PCO officials on other than legal grounds. Yet, the requirements coincide nicely with legal requirements. IDP is not designed only or even primarily to terminate the employee; rather the stated goal of the process is to bring the employee's performance problem to the attention of everyone involved so that the employee or her supervisor can rectify the problem (see PCO Guidelines 1989). PCO officials, both in law and in human resources, insist that the rationale for the documentation is not a legal defense, but fair treatment as an aid to rehabilitation of the employee. Yet, the process does generate a thorough paper trail about the employee's poor performance, which provides both legal justification for any eventual termination and better evidence supporting PCO's decision.

In addition, IDP is designed to prevent the two outcomes that could be most costly to PCO. First, it is designed to prevent termination of an
