---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 748e5c96f5e810167a303b2b7ab01030c2c7df6c
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# 248 LAW & POLICY July 1999

discriminatory firing, and, in some cases, imposed requirements of due process, notice, and severance pay. There are significant legal differences across nations, however. Most European states and Canada emphasize guarantees of continued employment. The United States, in contrast, gives priority to the employer's interest in efficiency and the fluidity of markets while at the same time providing strong legal protection against termination based on race, gender, age, or disability. Moreover, national legal systems vary in whether employee rights are protected by courts or administrative bodies.

Some large domestic corporations offer stronger guarantees against arbitrary dismissal than are required by law, and some multinational companies pride themselves on implementing similar personnel practices regardless of the law of the host countries. That is the corporate practice of ``PCO,''1 a major multinational pharmaceutical company with operations in more than twenty countries. This case study examines whether and how differences in national legal regimes affect actual corporate personnel practices, using PCO's United States and Canadian operations as an object of inquiry.

legalism'' hypothesis. Adversarial legalism is the idea that the American legal and regulatory style is uniquely legalistic, adversarial, and expensive (Kagan 1991, 1997; Kagan & Axelrad 1997). This case study focuses on one multinational corporation that conducts parallel business operations in the United States and Canada, another economically advanced democracy. By ``holding constant'' the business activity, this study seeks to discern the extent and importance of differences in national legal rules and processes. There exists a large body of cross-national studies of particular legal processes that indicate that U.S. legal and regulatory processes, when compared to other economically advanced democracies, more often involve adversarial legal conflict, strong legal sanctions, and higher levels of legal uncertainty, but none focuses specifically on the United States and Canada in the employment law context (Church, Nakamura & McMahon 1993; Noah 1993). Additionally, there is speculation in the popular press that the rising cost of doing business in the United States has or will force companies to move operations outside the United States to avoid these costs. An empirical examination of these costs is important for this debate.
