# IV. PERCEPTION OF LEGAL RISK

Despite PCO's attempt at uniform cross-national policy, a detailed inquiry into the termination processes in both countries demonstrates that there are significant cross-national differences in structure, procedure, and dispute patterns. An examination of the law on the books would lead one to expect PCO Canada to be more risk averse, incurring greater costs in the termination process due to the greater employee protections in that country. In fact, the reverse is true. PCO U.S. is more risk averse. This aversion to risk in PCO U.S. is evidenced by the establishment of different structures and procedures in the termination process. These different and more complex structures and procedures are a substantial cost to PCO U.S. not incurred by PCO Canada.

The greater costs and the tendency to be risk averse is a by-product of PCO's attempt to minimize the likelihood of incurring the maximum liability. For PCO U.S., it seems as though it is more efficient (whether or not it is in fact) to expend greater resources early in the termination process to avoid the worst possible outcome. Thus, the empirical work that emphasizes the low mean costs of employment termination lawsuits is irrelevant to PCO officials. PCO Canada employs a similar strategy, but the same result is achieved for less money because Canadian companies enjoy greater legal certainty. PCO Canada officials know that the only cause of action they are likely to face is a reasonable notice claim and they have a good idea of what their maximum exposure will be if the case goes to trial. Moreover, PCO Canada officials know what to do to avoid litigation. One of the ways that the legal certainty manifests itself in PCO Canada is their ability to function with relatively little input from an attorney.

PCO U.S.'s aversion to legal risk is evident in its formal structural attempts to limit legal risk through mechanisms already discussed such as employing more legal and quasi-legal personnel and establishing the in-house bureaucracies to mitigate possible conflicts. Moreover, PCO's aversion to legal risk is evident in the implementation of variations on the standard termination processes.

Although it is difficult to be certain, PCO officials and our own observations indicate that PCO U.S. incurs greater costs in the termination process than PCO Canada does.17 Although PCO Canada incurs costs in severance packages, PCO U.S. incurs greater costs due to the major in- house bureaucracies and more frequent utilization of legal and quasi-legal personnel.

The higher costs and aversion to legal risk evident on the part of PCO U.S. is due to two major factors according to PCO officials ± greater legal