data/clean/c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110__chunk0028.md, before:

# (a) Counsel's Fees

Lawyer compensation arrangements affect employees' ability to mobilize the law to redress their termination grievances. In the United States, lawyers can and do take cases on a contingency fee basis, whereby an attorney charges a client nothing at the beginning of a lawsuit but agrees to take a percentage of an award if and only if one is granted. A typical U.S. attorney's contingency fee is about 40 percent, making the attorney's fee, if the suit is successful, large enough for many U.S. attorneys to take chances on weak cases. Although most Canadian provinces allow some form of the contingency fee system, Ontario prohibits these lawyer compensation arrangements (Solicitors Act 1980). Because the majority of PCO Canada employees work and live in Ontario and because PCO Canada's corporate headquarters are located there, Ontario is the province with which PCO Canada is most concerned. Thus, many terminated PCO U.S. employees have a low-cost or no-cost way to pursue legal action that is not available to the majority of PCO Canada employees.

The ``loser pays'' system of awarding trial costs is another institutional difference that makes it less likely that Canadians will pursue legal claims to trial and, if they do get to trial, encourage Canadians to make earlier, more realistic assessments of their likelihood of success. The loser pays system can affect litigants in a number of ways. Cost sanctions (costs awarded at the end of the trial, requiring the loser to pay some of the winner's legal costs) are generally more severe in Canada than in the United States and costs

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110__chunk0028.md, after:

---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d54f807640df051ea60d39d96de7434e033740b3
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# 254 LAW & POLICY July 1999

cases ± in Canada the presence of a secure social safety net provides stability for terminated employees, thus making litigation more an option than an economic necessity.

In addition to these factors, there are a number of cross-national legal and institutional differences between the United States and Canada that affect an employee's decision to mobilize the legal system for redress. Institutional arrangements make it easier for U.S. employees to take legal action to vindicate their claims under the law, and encourage them to take legal action even if it is unclear whether or not their rights have been violated.

There are four legal institutions or rules that provide disincentives for Canadian employees to pursue their wrongful termination actions that are not faced by their U.S. counterparts. In other words, these four legal institutions make it more difficult for PCO Canada employees to mobilize the law. First, rules about lawyer compensation arrangements or ``counsel fees'' allow greater flexibility and therefore greater access to legal assistance for U.S. employees. Second, in the United States, government agencies make certain causes of action easier for U.S. employees to pursue, though those agencies suffer certain problems that will be examined as well. Third, the nature of damage awards in the two countries provides greater incentives for U.S. employees to pursue legal action. Finally, the method of recovery for employees in Canada is burdensome.
