---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2de92af853bb18ff5188b991b6aeb8c409a8f5e3
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# 280 LAW & POLICY July 1999

representative interviewed on 18 and 19 October 1995). However, consistent with PCO's general philosophy to err on the side of caution, misconduct would have to be pretty severe to circumvent the implementation of the IDP. 9. For more on the actual liability, see sections II(A)(2)(c) and II(A)(3). 10. Once the IDP is in process, other managers are involved in reviewing the em- ployee's performance, allowing the termination to be a ``PCO decision'' as opposed to a personal one. The costs of retaining a nonproductive employee could be great and yet are probably the most difficult for PCO to estimate, but some of the costs mentioned by PCO officials include lost opportunities, lost produc- tivity, and the time of the senior management. In the areas of marketing and sales, the estimate is somewhat easier, because PCO can assess performance by sales numbers. In other areas of PCO, however, the exact costs of nonproductive employees are hidden. These costs, hidden or apparent, are ever-present in the minds of the PCO executives and the use of the IDP is designed to reduce them. 11. There is a strong commitment to conducting the probation meeting in person regardless of how far the human resources personnel and the line manager may have to travel in order to be present for the meeting. In fact, the vice-president of human resources in Canada told us that one of her ``worst'' terminations ± meaning that the posttermination disputing was quite protracted ± was one in which she did not attend the probation meeting. She attributes at least some of the problems in that case to her absence from that meeting.

- 12. For more on the role of the affirmative action officer, see section III(B)(2). 13. For more on the substance of the interaction, see section II(C)(2). 14. Of course, there are many reasons why the process of terminating an employee may vary. For example, one case we discussed with a U.S. human resources manager involved a particularly hostile employee who also had quite a lot of expensive PCO property in his possession. In an effort to prevent PCO property from being destroyed, the termination meeting moved from the employee's office to his home where the computer was retrieved on that day. Each termination meeting is different and can be very long or quite short. These sorts of differences do not concern us because they are attributable to the employee's temperament more than to cross-national procedural differences within PCO.

- 15. There is an interesting parallel between this suggestion by the PCO U.S. attorney and the human resources personnel in PCO Canada. Although PCO Canada's attorney had no complaints once a termination reaches his desk, the human resources personnel expressed some dissatisfaction with the speed at which problems were brought to their attention by the line managers ± it was too late. This supports the argument that the human resources personnel in PCO Canada are performing some of the quasi-legal tasks.

- 16. This is not to say that all Canadian employers or even PCO should only be concerned by the reasonable notice cause of action. Obviously, employers in general and PCO Canada in particular could be vulnerable to lawsuits based on any number of causes of action described in the paper. However, I report here the experience of PCO Canada which has never been the subject of a lawsuit on any grounds other than reasonable notice. PCO Canada officials were, of course, aware of the various causes of action, but reported little concern about them due to the high level of integrity in the organization and on their past history. 17. There are any number of costs that we discussed with PCO officials that we had no way of quantifying and including in our analysis. For example, PCO officials said they had no way of estimating, but were sure the following costs are associated with the termination process: the ``gossip factor'' (lost productivity as other employees discuss the merits of a particular termination); replacement costs (the costs associated with finding and training a new employee to fill the terminated employee's position); and opportunity costs (those costs to the
