---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0789e6a4100f243b19062658dcd00b8de18d7c3d
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 273

common practice until very recently in the United States was to offer a step prior to formal probation known as a ``performance review'' or a ``perfor- mance plan.'' The performance plan was, for all intents and purposes, a probation period, except that a performance plan did not start the six- month probation clock and could be entered into informally, without consulting the attorney or the AAO. Like probation, during a performance plan period, a problem employee would have close supervision by her supervisor and a clear statement about the exact duties that she was expected to perform.

Because the performance plan was required neither by the law nor PCO corporate policy, what accounts for the inclusion of this step in the IDP? PCO U.S. officials attribute the rise of the performance plan as a way to guard against potential legal liability because it gave problem employees additional opportunities to reform and, hence, gave the line manager more evidence that any further discipline was justifiable. Moreover, the perfor- mance plan allowed line managers to attempt the same rehabilitative process attempted by formal probation without all the requirements. The performance plan also reflects the reluctance on the part of PCO U.S. officials to use the formal step of probation.

There have been recent changes regarding the performance plan in the United States PCO U.S. officials are trying to move away from the performance plan because it simply extends the termination process. In fact, all of the PCO U.S. human resources managers interviewed said that one of their main goals was to eliminate this informal practice due to the growing recognition that preprobation procedures and probation itself are signifi- cant costs to PCO (personal interviews). PCO U.S. officials are attempting careful analysis of each of the complex termination procedures to evaluate their legal necessity. Because the IDP and specifically probation are expensive and time-consuming, PCO U.S. executives are currently making efforts to reduce the costs PCO incurs from problem employees including: limiting the time of poor performance that precedes probation; reducing the number of probations by helping employees understand that PCO is not the right place for them; and reducing the need for legal and affirmative action consultations by training the line managers and the human resources managers to handle these situations properly.

The higher use of probation in Canada may be due in part to the common law standard. As stated earlier, one of the exceptions to the reasonable notice standard is terminating someone with just cause which can be established by unsatisfactory performance. It is interesting to note that even those Canadian employees who are terminated after the entire IDP has run its course are offered both their severance package and a lump sum payment referred to as ``notice.'' So despite PCO's attempt to document just cause (relieving the company of the requirement to provide reasonable notice) the company pays those employees anyway. Although the increased use of probation might suggest that PCO Canada is more risk averse, this actually
