---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e261aec839af8e8631b414167a07ad1ec7423eff
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 279

ment discrimination, but a comprehensive list of state law in the area of employment discrimination is beyond the scope of this project. Moreover, the laws at the state and federal level are similar. The purpose is to provide an overview of protections afforded workers in the United States.

In Canada, race and gender discrimination is prohibited at both the federal and provincial levels. For federal employees (not most PCO employees) private sector labor relations are governed by the Canada Labour Code (1990), but race, sex, national origin, and ethnic origin discrimination is prohibited by the Canadian Human Rights Act (1985).

It is beyond the scope of the project to comprehensively summarize provincial protection, but because almost all of PCO's Canadian employees work in Ontario and because the provincial law governs PCO employees, it is worthwhile to examine the Ontario statute that governs private sector labor relations ± the Ontario Employment Standards Act (1990). Like the federal law, protection against discrimination in Ontario is embodied statutorily in a Human Rights Code: The Ontario Human Rights Code (1990). It should be noted, however, that each province in Canada has its own statute and they vary somewhat.

In the United States, protection from age discrimination is prohibited by the Age Discrimination Employment Act (1988). In Ontario, age discrimination is prohibited by the Ontario Human Rights Code (1990).

In the United States, the law governing employment abuses on the basis of disability is the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) (1988) and in Ontario, discrimination based on disability is prohibited by the Ontario Human Rights Code (1990).

Finally, protection from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation is

also found in the Ontario Human Rights Code (1990).

- 4. Although it is difficult to find data of this nature specific to certain corporations, some empirical studies about the rate of disputing in the corporate United States indicate that PCO may have a higher level of disputing than other companies do. In fact, many authors of empirical studies about dispute patterns conclude that a large percentage of aggrieved employees do not pursue their claims of employer mistreatment. Moreover, when the source of the claim is discrimination, as is frequently the case in PCO U.S. (see Table 3), scholars suggest that the number of people who will pursue a claim falls even further (see, e.g., Bumiller 1988). There are any number of reasons why the experience of PCO may be different than the ones mentioned here. First, PCO is a very large corporation, which may lead to higher disputing rates due to a lack of community. Second, the employees at PCO are largely upper-middle class, well-educated employees. This popula- tion is more likely to know their legal rights, have access to the legal system, and either have an attorney or know how to go about getting an attorney. Thus, many of the barriers to the legal system that may be present for the subjects of the other studies are not faced by PCO employees. Of course, since this case study focuses only on the experience of PCO, there is no way of knowing exactly why these numbers are higher; these are simply some hypotheses.

- 5. For more on PCO's organizational response, see section III(B). 6. Although the employee formally has the option of attempting to launch a criminal prosecution, this option is rarely employed because the minister must consent to the prosecution.

- 7. Of course, there is a difference between formal and informal differences in corporate culture. While the corporate standard emphasizes cross-national continuity, the corporate philosophy cannot eliminate all cultural differences. 8. Obviously, ``misconduct'' is a broad category designed to give PCO officials some flexibility. Some of the executives with whom we spoke even laughed about the ambiguity of the category (such as PCO Canada's senior human resources
