---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 21459ce66b4956744df66c4183d9f88e555f3ad2
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# (c) Termination

At the end of the six-month probation period, assuming the employee has not left on her own, a decision to retain or terminate the employee is made. This process is the same cross-nationally and seems to be regarded by PCO human resources officials as ``the easy part.'' PCO officials in both the United States and Canada indicate that by the time a problem gets to this stage in the process, it is clear if it is going to be feasible to retain the employee. The actual decision is made by the line manager, the human resources manager, and, in some cases, the attorney and/or the affirmative action officer in consultation with one another.

The ``hard part'' of termination concerns setting the terms, especially the amount of the severance pay. In both countries, the officials say that PCO tries to make the first severance offer a fair one because they claim that fairness prevents both time-consuming negotiations and inconsistent results among similarly situated employees. Another incentive for providing a fair first offer is that PCO does not want to anger an employee at this sensitive time. Offering a severance package regarded as insufficient or unfair could trigger escalating post-termination disputes. In neither country, however, does PCO budge much from the initial offering.

In both the United States and Canada, human resources executives described particular terminations that deviated from the traditional IDP for various reasons. In certain circumstances, PCO would eliminate steps of IDP or speed up certain phases of the model if the employee in question were particularly harmful to PCO. The fact that PCO is willing, under particular circumstances, to deviate from the stated policy demonstrates two things. First, PCO executives are aware that IDP goes above and beyond the legal requirements in both countries. Otherwise, PCO would not be willing to cut corners for fear of opening itself up to legal liability. Second, PCO is consciously legally risk-averse in its standard termination process. Where business risks are obvious and severe, PCO is willing to move closer to legal liability in order to prevent other costs to PCO that would result from retaining the employee.

In Canada, for example, PCO faced a particular marketing challenge. The termination of Steve Smith (a pseudonym) provided great difficulty for PCO because he was brought in at a fairly high level as the product manager of one of PCO's largest selling drugs in Canada. At the time Smith's performance began to wane, the drug was only months away from being made available under a generic label. Obviously, PCO had a large business interest in ensuring brand loyalty and market share just prior to the time when competition would begin. The product manager's role in ensuring
