# 268 LAW & POLICY July 1999

training on special topics such as sexual harassment, and complying with OFCCP requirements, especially producing and updating PCO's annual affirmative action plan). When termination is being considered, the line manager or the human resources manager contacts the AAO whenever a ``protected'' employee (such as a racial minority, a woman, or an employee over forty years of age) begins down the incremental discipline road. The AAO can also become involved when a terminated or disciplined employee threatens to or actually files a complaint with the EEOC. PCO is adamant in saying that employees who fall

into protected categories receive no different treatment in the termination process than employees who are not members of protected classes. On the other hand, an employee who enjoys increased statutory protection is always routed through the AAO prior to termination while only some of the ``unprotected employees'' are. The director of the AAO says that his office is brought into the termination process to ensure that similar employee malfeasance is treated similarly. A second goal is to ensure that all legal requirements are met. Despite assurances that all employees are treated the same, the affirmative action officer and corporate human resources personnel all expressed concern about the relatively new Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) which protects employees with disabilities. Because some disabilities may be hidden, there is a concern that an employee may be misidentified as not belonging to a protected class when he does, in fact, merit special protection. The ADA is troubling to PCO U.S. officials both because employees who may merit increased protection are not easily identified and because of the ambiguity associated with the legal requirements actually imposed on PCO. It is interesting, however, that PCO Canada does not feel compelled to create a special effort to deal with this risk.

In addition to providing a consulting-type service during incremental discipline proceedings, the AAO is responsible for PCO U.S.'s interface with the EEOC and the various state government equivalents. If an EEOC complaint is filed by an employee who believes that she has been terminated due to her race, gender, or age, then PCO has thirty days to file a response. (At the time of our interview, the EEOC had been recently giving PCO sixty days to file the response. PCO's AAO did not know why this change in policy had taken place and, grateful for the extra time, had not sought out an explanation from the regulatory agency.)

At this point PCO must be very careful, say the AAO officials, because the complaint signals that the termination might result in a lawsuit and has the chance of going to trial. Also, PCO wants to end the dispute quickly. Any complaint to the EEOC, therefore, is investigated by the AAO. The director of the office claims that responding to each complaint requires about two full work weeks for one person ± about eighty hours. After PCO's response is filed, the EEOC has 180 days to resolve the case or to authorize the employee to sue PCO, or 300 days if a claim has been filed with a state agency. If the EEOC has not been able to investigate the complaint in