---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a5879e6e4dbce90378c54488a471da21e209e129
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 253

tections. Three major common law protections arose during the twentieth century in the United States. First, the employment-at-will presumption is weakened by the public policy exception, which limits the employer's right to discharge an employee for reasons that violate public policy. This excep- tion was established in Petermann v International Brotherhood of Teamsters (1959) which held that an employer cannot terminate an employee for failing to commit perjury at his employer's direction. Second, in Monge v Beebe Rubber Co. (1974), the Supreme Court created an exception for violation of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. In that case, the court held that an employer may not discharge an employee for failing to go on a date with her employer. The final common law exception to the employ- ment-at-will presumption was established in Toussaint (1980).

Moreover, statutory protections have eroded the employment-at-will presumption in the United States, including the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the Pregnancy Discrimination Act. Additionally, government workers protected by civil service legislation are entitled to continued employment absent just cause for dismissal. Collective bargaining agreements provide the same for many unionized employees in the private sector.

Despite many similarities in legal regimes, it seems clear that Canadian employees enjoy somewhat greater legal protections from arbitrary treat- ment than do their American counterparts. The somewhat more favorable common law tradition as well as the greater statutory protections demon- strate this. In addition to the formal laws that protect employees in the two countries, many large corporations, like PCO, include guarantees of due process in their employee manuals, bringing employees certain protections via the contract exception to employment-at-will.

Although PCO has no unionized employees in either country, it is worth noting that there is a much higher rate of union organization and union strength in Canada. PCO Canada officials are no doubt aware of the environment in which they operate that may result in greater employee protection, but it would be difficult to measure how the generalized threat of unionization affects the actual day-to-day practices of PCO officials.

- 2. Legal Institutions and Mobilization of Law

Numerous factors go into the decision of a disgruntled employee about whether or not to pursue any legal claim arising from a dispute regarding a termination. The employee's age, education, and prior encounters with legal disputes are probably factors that influence her decision to invoke or ``mobilize the law'' (Bumiller 1988). Another factor that may explain the relative lack of legal mobilization in Canada is the availability of social services (Thomas 1991). Thomas argues that widely available health insurance and disability compensation in Canada makes litigation optional in products liability cases. The same may be true for employee termination
