## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 271

meeting in the form of a letter or phone call from an attorney-friend of the terminated employee. This negotiation rarely reaches a formal level.

Severance packages are much lower and there is rarely time spent negotiating a waiver of legal liability in the United States. PCO Canada invests heavily in pretermination resolution which, in turn, leads to fewer posttermination disputes and thus, lower costs. But, these are the only parts of the termination process that seem to be less expensive in the United States than in Canada. The extremely low level of post-termination disputes and the lack of expensive, pretermination consultations with legal and quasi- legal personnel in PCO Canada are evidence that the more complex and detailed body of legal rules facing PCO U.S. officials result in higher expenditures for PCO U.S. which has no option but to invest heavily in both pretermination and posttermination disposition mechanisms.

- 2. Use of Attorneys

Not only do PCO U.S. officials consult attorneys more often, but they also use them somewhat differently. In the United States, according to human resources officials, the question they typically present to the corporation's attorney is more open-ended, along the lines of, ``What should we do in this situation?'' According to both outside counsel for PCO Canada attorney and PCO Canada human resources officials, the usual question asked of the attorney in Canada is more narrow, along the lines of, ``Is the step we are about to take legally defensible?'' Moreover, the attorney in the United States not only troubleshoots, like the Canadian attorney, but also provides on going training to human resources department personnel. In the United States, the in-house PCO attorney tries to speak with every human resources worker and as many line managers as possible before they start their jobs. She encourages them to err on the side of consulting her too early and too often rather than too late and too infrequently.

In Canada, there are more hard and fast rules about when the attorney should be consulted. Generally, the attorney is consulted later in the process. The attorney reviews the probation letter and analyzes or at least discusses the file to determine if PCO Canada is in a solid position to take the serious step of placing an employee on probation. Attorney utilization is thus a routine ``last check'' to ensure that human resources and line management has not made some egregious error.

In the United States, in contrast, a line manager or human resources representative often consults an attorney not to seek approval for a decision, as is typically the case in Canada, but to participate in formulating a plan. The attorney consultation is not only to help ensure that PCO will have sound legal footing in the event that a termination eventually arises, but also to help apply PCO's policy of attempting to rehabilitate problem employees. The U.S. attorney is more a partner in the decision-making process, without dictating the outcome of the problem.