---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9a0ebd93a9371378a0f988f5744a162967fa2af1
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 281

business associated with having an unproductive employee filling a particular position ± particularly a sales position) to name just a few. These costs escalate the longer a poor performance is tolerated. Of course, there are obvious benefits to terminating an unproductive employee. Presumably, the company would be more profitable if the job were being performed adequately. For a true account- ing of the ``costs'' associated with termination, all of these factors (which are difficult, if not impossible to quantify) would have to be considered in the analysis. Thus, it is difficult to empirically prove which of the termination models ± the one followed in Canada or the one followed in the United States ± is more expensive. However, on the measure we were able to quantify, the U.S. model is more expensive.

- 18. Again, this is not to say that PCO Canada officials are representative of all Canadian employers or even to say that they are wise in their attitude that they need only be concerned with one cause of action. Here I report what PCO Canada officials think and what they do even if it is not the most legally sound method of operating in a legal environment in which employers are vulnerable to so many different causes of action.
