---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b9d185a389c965f3daf83434ca6aaaa210326b87
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# 272 LAW & POLICY July 1999

PCO's Canadian attorney had nothing but praise for PCO Canada's human resources department. He could not think of a time when he told a PCO representative not to take the probation or termination steps they had proposed. In the United States, on the other hand, the attorney claims she often wishes that the human resources representative or the line manager had consulted her earlier in the process.15 The American lawyers sometimes want additional steps to be taken regarding a problem employee, even if doing so will lengthen the documentation phase and extend the tenure of an unwanted employee.

Finally, the PCO U.S. attorney seems to work much harder at ensuring consistency ± ensuring that employees who have committed similar blunders are treated alike. This may partly reflect differences in scale and organ- izational structure. The Canadian human resources department is smaller and all the human resources representatives are in the same location, which allows consultation with one another to ensure consistency. In the United States, both the attorney and the AAO take responsibility for ensuring consistent treatment. Differences in law, however, also influence the U.S. attorney's extra efforts at achieving consistency. Since PCO Canada is only concerned with one cause of action ± reasonable notice ± it is easier for nonlegal actors to perform many of the quasi-legal tasks reserved for the attorney in PCO U.S., where employees may resort to the more complex array of statutory causes of action, in more legal forums, and subject to a higher degree of legal uncertainty.16

- 3. Use of Probation

Probation is one of the most important and potentially costly elements of the IDP. Although PCO officials claim otherwise, the probation process serves as insulation from legal liability. Probation is a demonstration of PCO's attempt to rectify a problem in a procedurally fair manner, thus mitigating future claims by terminated employees of unfair treatment. As Table 2 shows, probation is used much more frequently by PCO Canada (35.7 percent of the time an employee is terminated) than by PCO U.S (9.1 percent of the time an employee is terminated).

The probation practice is drawn out, costly, and usually unsuccessful. One executive estimated that only one or two out of five employees who begin down the road of incremental discipline make it back in good standing with PCO (personal interview). The higher probation rate in Canada is evidence that seems to contradict the theory that PCO U.S. is more risk averse and incurs more costs in the termination process. After all, wouldn't the division of the company that is more risk averse employ this defensive strategy more frequently? Not necessarily. In fact, PCO U.S.'s less frequent use of pro- bation is misleading and actually reflects its greater sensitivity to legal risk. The procedures followed in the United States for probations when they do occur have historically been more complex and expensive. For example, a
