# 262 LAW & POLICY July 1999

employee who, all things considered, should not be terminated. Thus, IDP is designed to deter or expose a capricious manager with an unjustified desire to terminate an acceptable employee. Terminating an employee for no reason or for a bad reason could expose PCO to legal liability,9 but PCO would also bear the costs of replacing the employee, training the employee's replacement, and retaining the unjustly fired employee's arbitrary or biased supervisor. Second, PCO policy is designed to reduce the risk of retaining an employee who should be terminated. IDP provides the vehicle by which a manager who feels bad about terminating a ``friend'' can employ a procedure that offers an impartial, protected assessment of the employee's performance.10

IDP, nevertheless, is costly in itself. It consists of three phases ± docu- mentation, probation, and termination. Prior to the documenting phase, as an employee's performance begins to wane, the ``line manager'' ± the employee's direct supervisor ± is expected to step up consultations with the problem employee to make clear the expectations that are not being met.

(a) Documentation When the line manager determines it is appropriate, she begins to document these meetings, sending copies to the employee and to the employee's file. This documentation provides the basis for later termination if necessary, but also is intended to help the problem employee rehabilitate her performance. The length of the documentation phase varies according to factors such as the sensitivity of the position, the general attitude of the line manager, and the line manager's perception of how long the employee has been performing inadequately.