---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2daeb15cfe86aa192d570e71a90c6e46ddc60eb6
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# (b) Administrative Agencies

In both countries, there exists a regulatory mechanism for dealing with employees' claims of discrimination on the grounds of race, gender, age, and disability. In both countries, the regulatory agencies are slow and somewhat ineffective. The major difference is that there is a routine mechanism that allows U.S. employees to opt out of the regulatory process and file suit in federal court, whereas their Canadian counterparts have no such available remedy. Here again, the process in the United States makes it somewhat easier for employees to pursue a claim against their employer.

Anti-discrimination lawsuits claiming discrimination based on race, sex, age, disability, national origin, and religion are channeled through the EEOC in the United States, which was created with the ``enactment of Title VII of the historic Civil Rights Act of 1964 as a five-member, bi-partisan, inde- pendent executive branch agency charged with enforcing the [then] new employment anti-discrimination law'' (U.S. Congress 1995: 449±70. This statement was made by Gilbert F. Casellas, Chairman, U.S. Equal Employ- ment Opportunity Commission.). Since its creation, the agency has also been directed to enforce other workplace antidiscrimination laws as they have been enacted.

An employee with an antidiscrimination claim, in this case a claim that she was terminated for a discriminatory reason, can file a complaint with the EEOC or the equivalent state agency. If the former, the EEOC then has a statutorily prescribed time of 180 days to investigate the claim. The outcome of the investigation can take one of three forms. First, the agency may investigate the claim and determine it to be without merit; under these circumstances, the agency will dismiss the claim. Second, the agency may investigate and determine that the claim is meritorious. In this case, the employee is either issued a ``right-to-sue'' letter which allows her to file a lawsuit in federal court, or the EEOC itself may sue the employer. Finally, if the agency is unable to investigate and dismiss a complaint within 180 days, the EEOC is required to issue a ``default'' right to sue letter which gives the employee/claimant the right to file a lawsuit in federal court but makes no claim as to the merits of the action.
