---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d54f807640df051ea60d39d96de7434e033740b3
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# 254 LAW & POLICY July 1999

cases ± in Canada the presence of a secure social safety net provides stability for terminated employees, thus making litigation more an option than an economic necessity.

In addition to these factors, there are a number of cross-national legal and institutional differences between the United States and Canada that affect an employee's decision to mobilize the legal system for redress. Institutional arrangements make it easier for U.S. employees to take legal action to vindicate their claims under the law, and encourage them to take legal action even if it is unclear whether or not their rights have been violated.

There are four legal institutions or rules that provide disincentives for Canadian employees to pursue their wrongful termination actions that are not faced by their U.S. counterparts. In other words, these four legal institutions make it more difficult for PCO Canada employees to mobilize the law. First, rules about lawyer compensation arrangements or ``counsel fees'' allow greater flexibility and therefore greater access to legal assistance for U.S. employees. Second, in the United States, government agencies make certain causes of action easier for U.S. employees to pursue, though those agencies suffer certain problems that will be examined as well. Third, the nature of damage awards in the two countries provides greater incentives for U.S. employees to pursue legal action. Finally, the method of recovery for employees in Canada is burdensome.
