# 270 LAW & POLICY July 1999

investment plan to which the employee has contributed through his tenure. In contrast to the Canadian practice, lump sums equivalent to an employee's salary are not made at the time of termination.

Since liability for PCO U.S. does not center on the severance package, but rather centers on the termination itself, the use of waivers at the time of termination is a bit different. In the United States, the waiver, though rarely used (none of the U.S. regional human resources managers interviewed had used the waiver more then five times, though all of them were thinking about using it more and wanted to use it more), seeks to indemnify PCO from various forms of legal liability. Human resources managers in the United States are reluctant to ask for a waiver because corporate officials believe that, once the idea of legal liability is introduced, the employee is more likely to retain an attorney or pursue legal action.

In contrast, in Canada, requests for waivers are standard practice. At the termination meeting a waiver (which has been approved by PCO's attorney) is presented to the Canadian employee who signs the waiver either on the spot or after consulting with an attorney (often consulting at PCO's encouragement) to make sure the offer is a fair one.

In Canada, when an employee is terminated without just cause, she is entitled to reasonable notice or compensation in lieu thereof. Just cause exists when the employee engages in serious misconduct, insubordination, theft, dishonesty, incompetence, competing with the employer, conflict of interest, absenteeism, or illness. For purposes of the notice requirement, adverse economic conditions, redundancy, and reorganization of the company do not constitute just cause for termination. Some commentators suggest ± and PCO Canada's expectation, reflected in practice, seems to demonstrate ± that employers have a high burden to overcome if they attempt to prove a termination meets the just cause requirement. Thus, PCO Canada routinely offers reasonable notice compensation in lieu of actual notice. The amount provided is not specifically dictated by the law; court decisions refer to a variety of factors including length of service, salary, job status of the former employee, labor market conditions, and the year of the decision (McShane 1983). General studies indicate that such severance awards in court cases average almost nine months of pay (McShane & McPhillips 1987) and somewhat more for larger employers (ibid.). In return, the employee is asked to sign a waiver accepting the conditions of the severance package and accepting this as an adequate substitute for just cause.

Given the legal ambiguity concerning what must be paid in lieu of actual notice, PCO Canada tends to err on the side of safety and fairness, offering the dismissed employee outplacement assistance, severance pay, and a short- term (usually six months) extension of her medical benefits. Unlike the prac- tice in the United States, PCO Canada officials and employees have some room to negotiate. This negotiation is often quite informal. It occurs in many of the termination meetings or occurs semiformally after the termination