## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 263

point of probation. The attorney makes sure that the problems in question provide the basis for a legally justifiable termination and that there is adequate ``proof'' in the form of documentation to back up PCO's side of the story.

The employee is notified that she is on probation by a letter, typically delivered in person by her line manager and followed by a meeting. At the probation meeting the employee, the line manager, and the human resources manager are present.11 The substance of both the probation meeting and letter are the expectations that are not being met by the employee. At the probation meeting, the problem employee is asked whether or not the expectations for her work are unrealistic. This meeting can be very lengthy or very short. In the United States, most of the human resources executives claim that they know, prior to the probation meeting, what the response of the employee will be to the directed criticism.

Sometimes, the probation period or even the probation meeting is used as an opportunity to help the employee realize that there is simply a ``bad fit'' between PCO and the employee and hint that there is simply no other option for the employee but to leave PCO. One executive told us, ``I ask myself, `Is this a will problem or a skill problem?''' (personal interview). If it is a ``skill problem'' the probation meeting is used as an opportunity to assess what PCO can do to bring the employee's skills up to what is required for the tasks she is expected to perform. Typically, however, a ``skill problem'' will not reach the probation phase. Skill deficiencies are identified and rectified before the problem gets this far. Because PCO executives believe it is the company's responsibility to teach an employee the skills she needs to be successful, when a skill problem reaches this phase of IDP it is everyone's responsibility. Sometimes, the skill problem is simply too large. Then, ``we try to convince the employee that the opportunities at PCO are not going to meet their expectations. We try to help them get on with other life opportunities'' (personal interview).

Most probation meetings are conducted to address ``will problems.'' In these cases, it is up to the employee to recognize that she is not putting all she can into the job and she has to make her own turnaround. According to human resources personnel, there is nothing PCO can really do to fix a will problem, so probation is an extended period in which the employee can assess her options and make this personality change if she can. ``Will problems'' are expected to be rectified quickly because an employee either shapes up when confronted or does not. PCO officials are willing to give more time to a genuine ``skill problem'' if the official believes that it can be rectified.

Throughout the probation, typically a period of six months, the line manager is expected to continue meeting regularly with the problem employee to ensure performance is improving satisfactorily. Although probation is a ``right'' enjoyed by all employees who have been with PCO for more than one year, the probation process is costly for PCO. The costs of