## Nielsen TERMINATION IN THE U.S. AND CANADA 265

sales is crucial at all times, but, at this time, the quality of the product manger's work was perceived as especially vital for the company. When Smith missed deadlines, failed to create and implement development plans, and failed to manage the budget properly, his direct supervisor implemented a ``development plan'' to help Smith rehabilitate his performance. Smith was quickly terminated when it became obvious that he had no intention of implementing the development plan. In Smith's case, none of the formal steps of the IDP had been taken. The development plan was not a formal probation, and yet Smith was terminated without fear of legal ramifications. The decision whether to terminate an employee in a crucial position at a crucial time poses a difficult dilemma for PCO. On the one hand, termin- ating the employee leaves a vacancy that is difficult and expensive to fill. On the other hand, retaining the employee may lead to lost profits that cannot be recouped. Of course, this is always the tension that PCO and every company faces surrounding termination. In the case of Smith, however, the costs to PCO were too great and too obvious, so PCO executives were confident in their decision to forgo IDP.

Similarly, in the United States, when executives are confident that the probation will probably not lead to a rehabilitated employee, they will use the probation meeting as an opportunity to help the employee realize that she should probably leave the company. PCO officials recognized the fact that this termination occurred more rapidly due to Smith's important position, but they did not cite this example as terminating an employee ``early,'' and they did not seem concerned about the legal ramifications of handling Smith's termination in this manner. Despite the formal adherence to IDP when the costs to PCO are obvious and great, it is willing to deviate from the model to pursue PCO's ultimate goals. Interestingly, a number of PCO officials who related instance of deviations from the stated policy indicated that the deviation made it no more likely that the termination would lead to legal wrangling.

Given the same cross-national policy and PCO's belief that it has implemented a termination policy that is more than is legally required to protect the employee, how can we account for significant differences in the outcomes we found between the two countries?