---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: aa1be7eae91576df9d803658d1943129e0f527e8
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# 252 LAW & POLICY July 1999

PCO's employees (Arthurs et al. 1993:146). At the most general level, Canada follows the European model of providing a higher threshold of protection from termination for all workers. In Canada, the employment-at- will doctrine does not prevail; the common law presumption in that country is reasonable notice prior to termination, unless the employer has ``just cause'' to terminate an employee. This suggests that Canadian employers might be more vulnerable to unjust dismissal lawsuits than their American counterparts ± at least in theory. Although the common law rule difference between the two countries hardly reflects the entire law, due to the rise of statutory and regulatory rules surrounding termination, this basic difference reflects the variant traditions regarding employment in the two countries.

In Canada, employees terminated without just cause are entitled to receive ``reasonable notice'' which can take the form of either actual notice or monetary compensation in lieu thereof. The reasonable notice standard is a common law protection that is not terribly precise because it requires judicial interpretation and can be overridden for a number of reasons such as a valid contractual term of employment, or if the employee's performance or conduct constitute ``just cause'' for dismissal. Statutory entitlement to ``termination'' or ``severance'' payments, on the other hand, are less vague but the guidelines embodied in statue are not terribly helpful due to the evolving common law doctrine that typically provides well above the proscribed minimum especially for senior level employees (ibid.:147). As a practical matter, there exist publications that provide guidelines for notice based on factors such as type of job, years of service, future employability of the terminated worker (see, e.g., Mole 1990). Despite the complexities of the interrelationship between common law protections and statutory mini- mums, which introduce a certain indeterminacy in the Canadian context, in the American private sector, there is no equivalent general protection for employees.

In contrast, in the United States, the trend has been to allow companies to define workers out of employee status by labeling them ``independent contractors,'' thus circumventing what is legally required in an employment relationship. Thus, U.S. law is less comprehensive and less protective of workers, and more protective of employer autonomy. To be sure, piecemeal statutory, common law, and regulatory protections have arisen which, departing from the common law presumption of employment-at-will, provide increased protection for many employees in the United States under antidiscrimination statutes. For example, in the area of regulatory protections, over 70 percent of the total U.S. work force ± including minorities, women, older, and disabled workers ± is ``protected'' as defined by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) (Donohue & Siegelman 1991).

Some legal scholars even argue that the employment-at-will standard no longer exists in the United States (Glendon & Lev 1979), since it has been eroded both by common law developments and statutory employee pro-
