---
source_path: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4bf01417b37dbe515841560ddf1e1855a59dd0de
title: c116_c104_c101_c85_c110_c105_c116_c101_c100_c83_c116_c97_c116_c101_c115_c97_c110
---
# 260 LAW & POLICY July 1999

in corporate culture. After all, the operations in the United States and Canada are separate divisions with different executives, operating in different countries. This might lead one to think that there are also differences in corporate policies, ideologies, and personnel practices. This is not, however, the practice of PCO. PCO has a strong commitment to uniform practices and policies. The 1989 PCO Guidelines of Company Policy declare that, ``[a]dherence to a uniform worldwide standard of conduct to guide our behavior is essential and must be maintained in each country where we do business.'' This commitment extends to personnel practices. Regardless of the substantive law in the countries in which PCO operates, the same PCO policy is supposed to be followed whenever a termination is underway. Every PCO executive we spoke to claimed that there are no official differences in the termination process between the United States and Canada. One PCO U.S. executive explicitly said, ``[i]n theory, there is no difference in the termination process between the two countries'' (personal interview). PCO sponsors annual training in the United States that all human resources representatives from both the United States and Canada are required to attend. Because the corporate philosophy is claimed to derive from principles of equity for employees rather than from legal requirements, PCO asserts that the company does not tailor the termination process to the legal requirements of the particular countries in which it operates.

The advantages to PCO of implementing a uniform cross-national human resources policy are many. Uniform cross-national policies, regardless of differences in law, allow PCO to train U.S. and Canadian human resources personnel in a single training (personal interviews). After the training, PCO can transfer human resources personnel from country to country without retraining those employees about the law and policy in all the different countries of operation. Additionally, PCO officials claim that the practice of implementing generous and consistent cross-national human resources policy makes recruiting and retaining quality employees easier because a fair and consistent human resources policy is something that will attract and retain quality employees (personal interviews).

Except in unusual circumstances, PCO is confident that its standard practices in termination go above and beyond the legal requirements of the United States and Canada. Hence, PCO policies emphasize high quality and consistent implementation of its IDP rather than meeting legal require- ments. PCO executives do believe, however, that following the PCO policy insulates termination decisions from serious legal challenge (personal inter- views). This emphasis on consistency and the very real attempt made by PCO officials to meet the corporate goal of uniformity allows us to rule out cross-national differences in corporate culture as a more likely explanation for the cross-national differences in termination practices.7

If PCO policy provides a level of protection for the employee that far exceeds what the law requires in both the United States and Canada, why do
