---
source_path: california_state_university_northridge_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2a81512cbafb18d86650a6c50bfba8106cf913c4
title: california_state_university_northridge_1
---
# an employee?"

It is determined the distinction between employee and contractor is

becoming increasingly risky. Therefore, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) produced a list of

twenty factors to assist employers distinguish between the two groups. If instructions are

required and follow a specific format, this is indicative of an employee status. Moreover, the

more training required, is also indicative of employee status. Another factor is integration, if

the work performed is needed and apart of an overall business flow, then this is indicative of

employee status. Next, service rendered personal, if a worker exhibits such behavior, which is

required, they a_re an employee. Hiring, if a worker fhnctio:ns in a supervisor capacity and

gives employees assistant, then this is an employee. Next, is a continued relationship, which is

defined by the employer and work, this constitute an employee status. Right to terminate, a

worker who has the ability to terminate the relationship is an employee. However, one who

must work until the project is complete is an independent contractor, anything prior would be

breach of contract. The right to discharge, a worker who can be discharge at any time is an

employee. An independent contractor can only be discharged for failure to comply with the

terms of the contract. These are some of the distinctions off the list of twenty generated by
