---
source_path: chapter_6.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0a8b27a6cc5d0ae256a8b2dcd5c43c2734036aed
title: chapter_6
---
## 6 Cross-Cultural Competence and Cultural Intelligence …

cognitive intelligence has to do with what people know and motivational intelli- gence reﬂects an individual difference describing a person’s determination to acclimate to a different socio-cultural environment. Mindfulness, according to Thomas, refers to an astute awareness of one’s present environment and experi- links knowledge with behavior. Because mindfulness “regulates ences, and it cognition” (Thomas 2006, p. 86), it is considered a metacognitive strategy that enables individuals to attend to one’s own experiences, to others’ experiences, and to when and how to interact with the environment. Thus, it relates to Earley and Ang’s metacognitive intelligence factor. Finally, the behavior component refers to skills individuals have to be able to demonstrate competence in a cultural envi- ronment, as well as ability to know when not to behave in certain ways. It resembles Earley and Ang’s behavioral intelligence component, though while Earley and Ang might consider a deep bow to a Japanese superior as indicative of behavioral intelligence, Thomas acknowledges that just because someone knows to and can bow, it does not mean s/he should bow.

According to Wang et al. (2015), 3C factors addressed above predict CQ. In a four-point longitudinal study (from pre-departure to 3 months post-arrival), they found that connectedness with the host culture, anxiety levels, coping through family support, and perceived language discrimination predicted international stu- dents’ scores on CQ at 3 months post-arrival. More speciﬁcally, Chinese interna- tional students studying in the USA, who started off with a high level of CQ, but also perceived language discrimination (e.g., opinions not taken seriously because of language ability) and high levels of anxiety, had a signiﬁcant decline in their CQ. Nonetheless, high scores on CQ positively related to life satisfaction. Thus, indi- viduals who are open to new experiences, sociable and have good communication skills are likely to “ﬁnd cultural intelligence easiest to acquire” (Thomas and Inkson 2008, p. 23). Although individual differences in values, personality, and predis- positions may not be necessary to develop CQ or 3C, if present, certain personality factors can speed up (or enable) its development (Greene Sands and Greene-Sands 2013; Thomas and Inkson 2008). Employing Earley and Ang’s (2003) cultural intelligence model, Ang et al. (2006) empirically examined the relationship between the ﬁve-factor model of personality and found that openness to experience posi- tively related to all four intelligence components (cognitive, metacognitive, moti- vational, and behavioral), and extraversion positively related to all intelligence components, but metacognitive intelligence. Thus, personality characteristics are sufﬁcient but not necessary predictors of the ability to develop 3C or CQ.

With mindfulness, one becomes aware of one’s own attributions, and, more the attributions that others will be made of one’s behavior. For importantly, example, Camiah and Hollinshead (2003), in a study of attributions Western expatriates made of their Russian colleagues and vice versa, found that Russians make less of a distinction between personal and professional life, and this results in Russians divulging personal information to their coworkers. More speciﬁcally, American expatriates perceived the Russians as being too open and unprofessional, and the authors asserted that the Russians experienced the rebufﬁng as a sign that Americans needed to “lighten up.” The greatest source of problems between
