---
source_path: chapter_nine.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4d37b1ae22060f4c508b9e1c85f92354895e555a
title: chapter_nine
---
# http://www.fons.org/library/journal.aspx

Having reviewed with the Ward Sister the number of incidents reported on the ward I was concerned because ‘falls’ appeared to be the biggest risk recorded (EUD). She asked me if I would share this information and facilitate a discussion at the monthly team meeting (CIP/EUD). I used a stakeholder evaluation approach to help structure discussion (CIP). Those present (included nursing, medical and therapy staff (T)) identified a number of positive factors that were linked to shared values (A1/A2): e.g. a willingness to explore and develop new ways of working (PAC); success in raising the profile of person-centred care (PCC), specific examples related to work in nutrition, dignity, continence care and ward based information (PCC/S); a strong team working ethos (T), underpinned by challenge and support related to team values and objectives which were owned by the team (T/HCHS/A2); a better profile in the hospital and value placed on the work of the team (C3); stability in leadership both at ward and operational management levels; it was ok to work in different ways that aimed to improve care for patients (A4); openness to report and learn from incidents (OC/LLL); and better continuity of care due to changes in shifts and handover patterns (C1a).

However the staff team recognised that there were still concerns and issues around for example; how to improve falls screening assessments; manage patients at risk; improve communication between nursing, medical and therapy team members in relation to people who had fallen or were at risk of falling; involve patients and supporters more; improve information and awareness of staff about the evidence base underpinning falls management and prevention; help staff to feel supported as well as challenged, so that they don’t feel threatened; and, to manage staffing and clinical dependency more effectively.

From this discussion and by using the stakeholder tool (CIP) we agreed the need to develop an action plan that team members would own and take forward so that falls prevention was proactively managed by the team (nursing, therapy and medical) as a whole. I sensed and saw a willingness to bring about ‘real change’, not just tick a box! (PAC).

We agreed that falls would appear as a rolling agenda item for the divisional clinical governance group (AF5) and that a sub group would be set-up (AF5), the junior charge nurse offered to chair this in the first instance however this would be shared with the physiotherapy and occupational therapy leads (leadership development) (LD/T). The first action plan included: root cause analysis of a month’s falls (EUD); audit of the risk assessment tool, identification of ‘best practice’ and the latest clinical evidence to reduce/prevent falls (EUD/S); review of relevance to the falls work of the observations of care and patient stories framework previously used in the nutrition and dignity projects (A3); agreement if a patient had fallen this would be handed over to the next shift so as to increase vigilance and daily morning nursing, therapy and medical rounds all patient would be reviewed (OC/T/S); discussion about funding options for a slipper exchange scheme and better resourcing to support practice; and, sharing learning at the trust wide senior nursing forum to influence development and a trust wide commitment as we recognised that the ‘issues’ were larger than just one ward (EF2a,b,c/C1d/C3).

We also saw the vital need to better develop ways of working that made patients and their supporters more central to screening and assessment processes so that there was shared ownership of ‘risk’ between the team and patients (PCC/S/A4/A5). Three members of staff volunteered to become ‘falls prevention champions’ (C1b); we also developed a programme of work based education and practice support (A2)/A5). We agreed as a team to meet every four weeks to review actions and to measure outcomes against agreed standards and goals (C1c/C1d).
