# Box 2. The ten core values

Person-centredness is broader than patient-centredness. The latter concept is reflected in the view that the ‘patient is king’ (Jones and Redman, 2000; Huq and Martin, 2000; Gough, 2001); treating each patient as an individual person; (Stordeur et al., 2000; Binnie, 2000) and the importance of therapeutic relationships between professionals, patients and others significant to them (Manojlovich and Ketefian, 2002). We use ‘person-centredness’ rather than patient-centredness because this recognises that the set of values underpinning patient centred approaches are the same as those that underpin good staff relationships. Being person-centred involves valuing staff (Haworth, 2000) as well as patients as persons, with all their diversity, and encompasses the interpersonal skills that are necessary to achieve this, and to instil faith and respect (Stordeur et al., 2000; Clark, 2002). Person-centred relationships are built on mutual trust, understanding and the sharing of collective knowledge (Binnie and Titchen, 1999; McCormack, 2001; Nolan et al., 2004; McCormack, 2004; Dewing, 2004); are interrelated with values, caring processes and the environment of care (McCance, 2003) and are realised through humanistic caring frameworks (Dewing, 2004). Person-centredness is the core value underpinning person-centred care (McCormack and McCance, 2010) and this in turn is underpinned by other values such as respect and the right to self determination: ‘an approach to practice established through the formation and fostering others therapeutic relationships between all care providers … patients and others significant to them in their lives. It is underpinned by values of respect for persons, individual right to self determination, mutual respect and understanding. It is enabled by cultures of empowerment that foster continuous approaches to practice development’ (McCormack, Dewing, Breslin et al., 2010, p 13).

Lifelong learning is evident in the development of a positive and enabling learning environment and culture (McCance, 2003; Shimko et al., 2000; McMahon et al., 2000; McCormack et al., 2002; Sim et al., 2003) where learning is active (Shimko et al., 2000; Dewing, 2008) and encouraged constantly (Chan, 2001); where feedback is pervasive (Clark, 2002); and people learn from their mistakes rather than from blame (Mahony, 2000; Scott et al., 2003). Learning in and from practice is a manifestation of this approach (Mulchey and Betts, 2005) and there is a commitment to learning and sharing knowledge Peplar et al., 2005). Manley and Titchen (2011) and Manley et al., (2009) have demonstrated how practitioners need to be helped to both learn from and inquire into their own practice and that the development of these skills help practitioners to both develop their own effectiveness as well as to develop the effectiveness of others.

10