---
source_path: chapter_nine.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9fb8524879352108c76e6f6962d8250040c3b013
title: chapter_nine
---
# http://www.fons.org/library/journal.aspx

(Manley, 2001; Stordeur et al., 2000; Welford, 2002; Gough, 2001; Manojlovich and Ketefian, 2002; Binnie and Titchen, 1998; McCormack and McCance, 2010) Staff demonstrate commitment and empowerment (Manley, 2001; Gough, 2001; Bevington et al., 2004b; Mulchay and Betts, 2005; Scott et al., 2003; Stordeur et al., 2000; Tiernan et al., 2002; Ingersoll et al., 2000; Thyer, 2003; Martin, 2000; Bernick, 2001; Bamford-Wade and Moss, 2010), reflected in improved recruitment, retention (Manley, 2001; Mulchay and Betts, 2005; Moss et al., 2008) and job satisfaction (Wilkins and Hawkins, 2005). It should be noted that staff well-being (feeling and being valued as a staff member in addition to physical and psychosocial wellbeing) is strongly related to positive patients’ experience and outcomes (Patterson et al., 2011; Maben, 2010; NHS Institute for Innovation and Improvement, 2010) Individuals and teams achieve pre-stated goals, corporate objectives and local and national standards, for example, in the areas of patient safety, reduced waiting times, improved access, and improved outcomes etc. (Manley, 2001; Stordeur et al., 2000; Welford, 2002; Mahony, 2000; Tiernan et al., 2002; Martin, 2000; Parisi et al., 2003; Jabnoun, 2001) Evidence-based practice exists with explicit knowledge development from practice, knowledge sharing and knowledge use (Manley, 2001; Peplar et al., 2005; Clark, 2002; McCormack et al., 2002; Newman et al., 2000; Waldman et al., 2003; Lewis, 2001; Binnie and Titchen, 1998; Ruvol and Bullis, 2003; Manley and Titchen, 2011). This consequence recognises that evidence based standards and national guidelines are implemented consistently across patient pathways and services

Human flourishing of all (patients, users and staff) as the ultimate end and process of critical creativity emerged as a consequence from phase two of this study (McCormack and Titchen, 2006). It is proposed that staff empowerment and motivation associated with an effective workplace culture (Manley, 2001; Huq and Martin, 2000; Owen et al., 2001) may be manifestations of human flourishing. Subsequent research and debate has positioned human flourishing as a powerful indicator and outcome of effective workplace cultures (McCormack and Titchen, 2006, 2007; Titchen and McCormack, 2010), one that integrates and achieves person-centredness, patient safety and effectiveness to enable all to flourish. It has been defined as focusing:

‘… on maximising individuals’ achievement of their potential for growth and development as they change the circumstances and relations of their lives. People are helped to flourish (i.e. grow, develop, thrive) during the change experience in addition to an intended outcome of well-being for the beneficiaries of the work. Flourishing is supported through contemporary facilitation strategies, connecting with beauty and nature and blending with ancient, indigenous and spiritual traditions (cf. Senge et al., 2005) and active learning (Dewing, 2008)’ (Titchen and McCormack, 2010, p 532).

An effective workplace culture positively influences other workplace and organisational cultures (Manley, 2001; Huq and Martin, 2000). This therefore impacts on how effective workplaces may be achieved across organisations as once an effective workplace culture is established; it is through the metaphorical flow of seeds to barren areas that other effective cultures can be grown, rather than rolling out a technically focussed cultural change programme across organisations. Cultural change programmes will therefore need to be ‘enabling’ and not ‘prescriptive’, cultivating the (bottom-up) growth of seeds rather than imposing ready-made carpets of grass. Through working with the enabling factors, values and attributes, other effective cultures can be nurtured.

Definition, related and surrogate concepts

16
