---
source_path: chapter_nine.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 73b92a1102ec7bd74d677b8b053d8ad4e7c59bc6
title: chapter_nine
---
# http://www.fons.org/library/journal.aspx

productivity (Naydeck et al., 2008; Goetzel and Ozminkowski, 2008). The consequences of ineffective and toxic cultures have resulted in serious implications for patient outcomes (Kennedy, 2001; Francis, 2010); staff well-being, and also wastes valuable economic resources. The relationship between workplace culture and its potential consequences therefore highlights the need to recognise, understand and develop effective cultures in healthcare, specifically at the level of care delivery where patients, service users and staff interface.

With recent reports of poor care and failures in healthcare focussed at the level of the patients’ experience (Francis, 2010; Patient Association, 2009, 2010; New South Wales Department of Health, 2009), the importance of understanding workplace culture and the strategies necessary to improve it are urgent priorities for policy makers, clinical leaders as well as healthcare provider organisations, regulators and policy analysts. If healthcare services are to meet the needs of patients (Department of Health, 2002; 2009; 2010; Rycroft-Malone et al., 2002a,b; Bevington et al., 2004a, b; Scalzi et al., 2006; Manley et al., 2011) and those people who support them; as well as recruit and retain valuable staff expertise (Manley, 1997; 2001; 2004; Buchan, 1999) the need for cultural change is of significant importance.

To understand workplace culture, to know what is an effective culture at the frontline, and also, how to develop one is therefore an essential skill-set for all clinical leaders and facilitators of change in healthcare settings. Culture is not about individuals but about the social contexts that influence the way people behave and the social norms that are accepted and expected. To transform how things are done at the practice level, requires fundamental changes in mindsets and patterns of behaviour as it is these that manifest culture reflecting the values, beliefs and assumptions held or accepted by staff in the workplace.

Healthcare policy and literature suggests that cultural change is achieved through leadership (Patterson et al., 2011; Apekey et al., 2011; Bevington et al., 2004a, b; Peplar et al., 2005; Lok et al., 2005; Mulchay and Betts, 2005; Mannion et al., 2005; Manley, 1997; 2001); and that effective cultures are recognised by teamwork (Mannion et al., 2005; Wilson, McCormack and Ives, 2005); learning in and from practice (Manley, 2001; Garbett and McCormack, 2004; Manley, Titchen and Hardy, 2009); placing the patient at the centre of care (McCormack et al., 2011; McCance et al., 2011;Garbett and McCormack, 2004; Mannion et al., 2005; Department of Health, 2005a); clinically effective care (Manley, 2001; Rycroft-Malone, 2004; Kitson et al., 2010); safe care (Hewison, 1999; Clark, 2002) and, continual improvement, flexibility and innovation in response to a changing healthcare context (Manley, 2000a, b; 2001; Mannion et al., 2005; Department of Health, 2005b). Yet no comprehensive framework exists for guiding clinical leaders with culture change at the local level (Patterson et al., 2011). In this paper we describe a framework for recognising and enabling an effective workplace culture relevant to all healthcare settings. We use the term ‘workplace culture’ to differentiate it from corporate and organisational culture, based on our assumption that it is the local workplace culture that has the most significant impact on the everyday experience of patients, their supporters, service users and staff, whether that is in the context of a team or patient pathway.

The notion of culture: corporate, organisational and workplace In its simplest form culture can be understood as `how things are done around here’ (Drennan, 1992, p3). Schein (1985) proposes that culture is best thought of as a set of psychological predispositions called basic assumptions held by members of an organisation and which tend to influence the ways in which they behave. However, the concept ‘culture’ is complex reflected in the lack of consensus about how it is defined with most general and health related literature focusing extensively on corporate and organisational culture (Davies et al., 2000; Scott et al., 2003; Mannion et al., 2005) rather than culture at the local level – ‘the workplace’ which is the focus of this paper.

2
