---
source_path: chapter_6.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1878860c7a309d120d41385c661e3bbcf740996a
title: chapter_6
---
# 6.3 Summary

intelligence is Differentiating between cross-cultural competence and cultural clearly a challenge. Some studies suggest that factors related to 3C are predictive of CQ, but several of the measures of the multi-faceted 3C are also predictors of the multi-faceted CQ. Research comparing these different measures and delineating more clearly their unique properties are needed, else the concepts will become little more than interchangeable terms, as they are currently in some, but not all, studies. Generally, researchers have identiﬁed that cross-culturally competent individuals and culturally intelligent individuals will have good overall health and well-being (Wang et al. 2015), personal adjustment, good interpersonal adjustment, and effectively perform tasks (Deardorff 2006; Thomas and Fitzsimmons 2008). In order to successfully develop 3C or CQ one must have cross-cultural experiences that include interpersonal interactions, be aware of their experiences, demonstrate interest in their experiences, make sense of their experiences, and process their growth through the experiences. A differentiating factor between 3C and CQ is that for 3C, sensitivity is the link between knowledge and behavior, whereas for CQ, metacognition and mindfulness is the link between cognitive intelligence and behavioral intelligence—it focuses on knowing when and how to act and when to suspend judgment. However, even the concepts of sensitivity and mindfulness overlap in that both focus on awareness and consideration of others and the situ- ation in which one is embedded. In short, perhaps the most distinguishing aspect of 3C and CQ is the researcher’s orientation, social/organizational psychology (dis- tinguishing between knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics) or cognitive/behavioral psychology (with a focus on cognitive and motivational, metacognitive/mindful, and behavioral intelligence).

The implication of these ﬁndings is that some aspects of 3C or CQ can be learned in the classroom, some through experiences, and some are simply a matter of a person’s desire. If there is desire to enjoy effective intercultural interactions, a person’s motivational intelligence or disposition toward openness to new experi- ences would lead someone to learning more about other cultures and trying new practices, foods, and activities. The more experiences people have and the more people think about the experiences, the more they become cross-culturally com- petent and culturally intelligent.
