## 6 Cross-Cultural Competence and Cultural Intelligence …

groups of researchers” (p. 992). These differences may be seen even within uni- versity communities. Operationalizing cross-cultural competence is particularly important for evaluating whether universities stating internationalization as a strategic goal are achieving that goal, yet it seems that administrators of institutions of higher education and intercultural scholars deﬁne intercultural competence dif- ferently. Deardorff (2006) employed a Delphi method whereby these experts pro- vided their opinions on the deﬁnition of intercultural competence and how to measure it with the explicit goal of reaching consensus among the experts. Administrators considered the term intercultural competence as interchangeable with the terms “cross-cultural competence, global competence, and global citi- zenship” (p. 247) and their preferred deﬁnition was not as nuanced as the deﬁnitions scholars preferred. Administrators preferred “‘Knowledge of others; knowledge of self; skills to interpret and relate; skills to discover and/or to interact; valuing others’ values, beliefs, and behaviors; and relativizing one’s self. Linguistic com- petence plays a key role’ (Byram 1997, p. 34)” (Deardorff 2006, p. 247). However, scholars preferred the deﬁnition: “‘the ability to communicate effectively and appropriately in intercultural situations based on one’s intercultural knowledge, skills, and attitudes’ (Deardorff 2004, p. 194)” (Deardorff 2006, pp. 247–248).

Generally, 3C focuses on cognitive–affective state in which one is perceived to have proﬁciency and expertise on cross-cultural issues. Hammer et al. (2003) deﬁne intercultural sensitivity, the affective component of 3C, as the ability to accept, value, and experience cultural differences. Sensitivity is also a foundational con- struct for the awareness and skills components of 3C. Heppner et al. (2012) con- ceptualize 3C, with a focus on national culture, as cross-cultural awareness, knowledge, and skills. Others focus on knowledge (information or facts), skills (i.e., behavioral aptitudes), abilities (e.g., tolerance for ambiguity), and other character- istics (e.g., curiosity and motivation) required to perform a job as operationalizing competencies that when a person excels in all areas, s/he is said to have a high level of 3C (Abbe et al. 2007; Matsumoto and Hwang 2013; McCloskey et al. 2010). In order to develop 3C, one must ﬁrst learn about oneself (i.e., self-awareness), fol- lowed by learning how to relate with others (i.e., intercultural sensitivity), and third developing an openness to understanding others (Black and Mendenhall 1990). Thus, 3C is evident through a person’s ability to interact with people in different cultural environments and situations, as the result of an ability to make sense of situations that are not inherently (or natively) schematic and to share thoughts about topics without widening cultural divides (Greene Sands and Greene-Sands 2013). Drawing on Heppner et al.’s (2012) framework, Wang et al. (2015) organize the aforementioned concepts into three coherent 3C predictor factors. These factors are (1) individual/psychological difference factors—personality, attitudes, and coping, (2) behavioral factors—immersion experiences, and (3) cognitive factors—making sense of experiences (i.e., sensemaking). Based on the work of Leung et al. (2013), is, declarative one must also have developed cultural meta-knowledge, knowledge about the knowledge people of a certain culture have. Knowing what people in another culture believe or know helps individuals communicate with members of another culture. Leung et al. showed that when participants thought that