---
source_path: chapter_nine.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2278bec977d7ac2978b27f3545913247da48985d
title: chapter_nine
---
# http://www.fons.org/library/journal.aspx

Corporate culture refers to values and practices shared across all groups in an organisation, at least within senior management (Kotter and Heskett, 1992). Anthony (1994) argues that corporate culture reflects what is espoused, that is, the culture that organisations want to portray for the purpose of influencing public relations or employee motivation, rather than, the organisational culture which is the actual culture experienced by staff and service users. Organisational culture in the past has been assumed to be singular and pervasive, monolithic and integrative, but all organisations have multiple cultures usually associated with different functional groupings or geographical locations (Kotter and Heskett, 1992; Bolan and Bolan, 1994), shared common interests, assumptions and associated values (Schein et al., 1985). Now, organisational culture is considered to include every aspect of an organisation and cannot be understood as separate from it, that is, culture is not an objective tangible or measurable aspect of an organization; organisations are cultures (Pacanowsky and O’Donnell-Trujillo, 1982; Bate, 1994).

In the context of healthcare the interplay between corporate, organisational and workplace cultures has major implications for merging different organisations, achieving consistent standards, and establishing social norms based on shared values of all employees. Over the last decade in healthcare, there has been a focus on organisational culture linking it in particular to performance (Mannion et al., 2005). The rationalist/instrumental approach to organisations has led to increasing standardisation and uniformity, with the false assumption that if all units operate the same, they will perform the same. Healthcare regulators and change facilitators with a more holistic approach to patient, service user and staff satisfaction, will have to delve under this mantle of organisations’ overall performance culture, and tackle the workplace culture i.e. the culture that has a direct impact on user and staff experiences. If each organisational unit is acknowledged as having its own workplace culture, each will have its own point of departure in terms of change and development (McCormack et al., 2011). However, with the predominant focus on corporate and organisational culture in the literature, little attention has been given to local workplace cultures (Patterson et al., 2011), although there is a growing recognition of the importance of a local safety culture (NPSA, 2004).

Bolan and Bolan (1994) suggest that understanding organisational culture may be enhanced if groups or subunits are viewed as carriers and possible creators of culture. They introduced the term `idioculture’ in order to challenge the assumption that ‘subcultures’ are derived from the organisational culture. Their proposition is that idiocultures interact with and influence each other, and from this emerges the organisational/corporate culture and vice versa. This view is consistent with findings in one healthcare study that identified the impact of one workplace culture on organisational culture (Manley, 2001). This position endorses our focus on ‘local workplace’ culture which we argue is also aligned with the micro-systems level of healthcare, a level already identified as pivotal to quality care (Nelson et al., 2002) and defined as:

‘…small functional, front-line units that provide most healthcare to most people. They are the essential building blocks of large organisations. They are the place where patients and providers meet. The quality and value of care produced by a large health system can be no better that the services generated by the small systems of which it is composed’ (Nelson et al., 2002, p 472).

Our interest in local workplace cultures stems from our argument that workplace culture represents the immediate culture impacting on both healthcare users and providers. Whilst there may be many similar elements of effective cultures across different cultural levels, our aim is to explore the aspects of effective cultures relevant to front line care. We therefore define local workplace culture as:

3
