# Considerations in Selecting

The major advantage of BOS is that raters are forced to make a more complete appraisal of the individual's performance, rather than emphasizing only those items which they can recall at the time of the rating and are able to match with one of the scale anchors.

A final type of behavioral scale, which is less rigorous than BARS or BOS, is an expansion of the performance standards approach. This type of scale attempts to answer such questions as "How good is exceptional?" or "How bad is unsatisfactory?" The scale is constructed by considering task statements developed by job analysis and writing statements which describe levels of performance in each job dimension. The number of levels of performance depends on the number of scale points. The underly- ing assumption is that for each job dimension, all tasks in the dimension will be per- formed in the same general way. The rater selects the description which "best fits." An example of this approach for the dimension of instructional preparation is shown in Figure 3.11.

Behaviorally based scales have several general advantages over other methods. Superiors and subordinates usually are involved in their development. The feedback provided is highly job-related, and performance appraisal sessions focus on behavior that contributes to successful performance. There are disadvantages to these methods. BARS in particular is extremely Lon,plex, requires sophisticated statistical analysis, and is time-consuming. The development procedures for these appr. asal instruments must be repeated for each job, which may not be cost-effective for .nose organizations that have a wide variety of jobs and have only a few individuals a each category.