data/clean/document_resume__chunk0534.md, before:

# Measurement Considerations

The primary measurement considerations which come to mind when focusing on performance appraisal are those of validity and reliability. Does the performance appraisal system indeed tap those dimensions of the performance that are criterial to the effective job performance? Bailey suggested that there are three approaches to deter- mining whether or not the criterion of effective job performance is indeed being measured. performance/factor analytic approaches,1111 and (3) appraiser generated approaches.l1,15 If in the development or adaptation of the performance appraisal procedure at least two of those dimensions could be utilized, the initial notion of content validity would be addressed. Additional content validation can be achieved by ratings of experts, but the primary sources of content validation are the conceptual validation of the job analysis and the empirical validation of the factor analytic approaches.

(1) job analytic procedures,

11,12 "

While content validity lacks the quantitative rigor of other methods, it would be erroneous to conclude that this method of validation is inferior, particularly with performance appraisal. What k central to the conLept is that the performance measures appropriately sample the domain of job content. When these measures are developed through comprehensive job analysis, the "inferential leap" between the content of the performance measure and the content of the job is minnmzed.'6 The "Uniform Guide- lines" accord equal status to content validation alone when behaviors and outcomes are directly observable.1' Finally, in that focus is on the measure itself, rather than on external variables, content validity is often the only practical choice.

Criterion-related validity is, of course,. always considered appropriate. There are some problems with predic II\ e validity in regard to the item and resources necessary to conduct the longitudinal study necessary for predictive studies. If the concurrent study is conducted with on-the-job employees as the criterion respondents to the instrument, there are serious problems as the criterion respondents to the instrument, there are serious problems with the employees not being directly similar to prospective employ- ees, with their having learned on-the-job, and with their experiencing lower levels of

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/document_resume__chunk0534.md, after:

---
source_path: document_resume.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 682ec53edb0822fc7f71a1befc5ff4022a5fc51c
title: document_resume
---
# Performance Appraisal

study, but those weighted results correlated roughly at the zero le% el with the other weights. Because of the nature of canonical correlation, that particular result was expected by the researchers.

Decisions made on the weighted, summed; or otherwise statistically or conceptu- ally treated data must be made by those who designed the performance appraisal system. Standard setting and cut-scores, numbers of items at paracular levels, and levels of performance required must be determined in terms of local needs. One caution that all using performance appraisal instruments must heed, however, is that many of the traits, behaviors, attributes, aptitudes, etc. that are being appraised are not parallel either in importance or in ease of measurement or obsery anon. These consider- ations must be attended to in any performance appraisal approach.
