# Performance Appraisal

will ensure that behavioral observations from throughout the rating period are consid- ered when ratings are provided, thus decreasing c rors of distortion due to faulty memory.

The critical Ilk ident file will also be beneficial during counseling diseussions with the mice, since it will allow the supervisor to illustrate tatintzs with actual observations of behavior. This will provide more objectivity to the performance appraisal interview, and will reduce feelings of "arbitrariness" w hen ratings are diseussed with subordinates.

Note that it is not necessary to "stockpile" the critical incident file until the annual appraisal season rolls around. Instead, each incident could serve as the basis of a con- temporaneous eoaehing interview between the supervisor and subordinate. Positive incidents could serve as reasons for praise' and other reinforcement, negative incidents as cause for correction. The critical incident tile, accompanied by records of resulting commendation or reprimand, would then beeome a cumulative record of each subordi- nate's performance during the year and an objective basis f,,r a valid perfoimance appraisal rating

It should be further noted that anecdotes of behavior written some time after the incidents have occurred are subject to the same errors of distortion as are other memories. It is for this reason that critical ineidents should be written at the time of their occurrence, not several months later. Raters who attempt to produce from memory their critical incident files on the day they are to be used for performance appraisal purposes are negating the value of the procedure.

Flanagan's critical incident technique, combined with Smith and Kendall's appli- cation of the Thurstone sealing tei hniquc to critical modems, has led to the develop- ment of several performance appraisal methods, me luding behaviorally anchored rating scales, mixed standard rattng scales, and \Nei:4111a! ehecklists.4'icil As noted earlier in this chapter, Bernardin and Beatty suggest that keeping a formal, contemporaneous diary of behavioral observations is an important component in the successful imple- mentation of performance appraisal programs u,ing these methods.rI Based on their review of research regarding the usefulness of diary -keeping, they make the following recommendation:

We recommend that a formal system of diary-keeping be implemented after rater training and that it is monitored by the rater's supervisor. We also recommend that the rater be made aware that the observation of the ratee*s behav ior is an important supervisory function and that the most important part of the appraisal process takes place during the observation period, rather than in the ten minute, when summary ratings are actually done.62

Since maintaining a critical ineident file and keeping a diary are simply two differ- ent manifestations of the same concept, Bernarchn and Beatty -s suggestions for writing descriptions of behav Mr, presented n Lxhibit 6 4, apply equally to both methods of record-keeping.61