# A Validation Strategy

a o minimizing EEO liability is realistic and well within the capability of any organization. Although no system can be made "lawsuit proof," there are measures which can reduce the possibility of systemic discrimination. The approach recom- mended here is based on a strategy of validation. By requiring the validation of perfor- mance appraisal systems according to the "Guidelines," this strategy ensures adequate defense if an employer is charged with discrimination.

Not all authorities in personnel nnagement recommend the strategy of validation. One view held by the opposing group of practitioners. writers, and consultants is that validation can be done only by experts and that another strategy, namely reducing or eliminating adverse impact, is preferred. Although it is true that validation is required only where a practice is having an adverse impact, such reasoning is not compelling. In the first place, if one accepts the definition of validity, that a procedure or "test" measures what it purports to measure, then validity itself is a legitimate end. Why would an organization not take steps to ensure that its performance appraisal system was measuring job performance? Another problem with a strategy of reducing adverse impact is that this approach implicitly questions whether members of protected groups can perform adequately even when the system is fair. They can and do. Finally, the 'Uniform Guidelines" provide validation methods. and one of these (content validity) can be accomplished without the need for statistical expertise. A checklist for legal requirements is shown in Appendix B.