# Performance Appraisal

It has long been claimed that communication is the number one problem in management. 11 It should follow that managers and superb isors must assume responsi- bility to see that effective communication takes place in appraisal interviews. As the mere expert or more accountable person, the supervisor needs to establish conditions that are conducive to effective communication and model good communication skills in appraisal interviews. Communication is the only tev:iniqc,-; managers have for exchanging meaning with subordinates. How else can Cie supervisor explore job per- formance with an employee: provide an employee with feedback on how closely work quality approximates expectations, dispense important, though intangible, rewards for jobs well done, or establi.,11 goals? The performance appraisal interview is considered the primary context for supervisors and employers to work together to achieve superior performance.12

Napier and Latham are among researchers in performance appraisal who have detected a shift in research from foci emphasizing psychometric qualities of rating and evaluation instruments to a focus on the appraiser.11 Although they emphasize complex social learning theory in explaining appraiser inters iew behaviors, Napier arta Latham are only two among numerous writers and researchers in pet formance appraisal who place emphasis on the key role of communication N ariables in performance appraisal. Communication between appraiser and appraisee is affected by fears of what performance appraisals might yield. Goodall, Wilson, and Waagen focus on the hierar- chical nature of such communication, that is, communication between a superior and a subordinate.14 Wexley described two primary objectives of the appraisal interview, both accomplished through communication N ariables. He gave special attention to the direction of communication flow in organizations. Because the flow is usually down- y'ard, distortion, inaccuracy, and suspicion re,,ult. Wexley's view of appraiser role is that of a helper whose primary tole is commumeation.15 Stano focused on appraiser communication skills and the importance of appraisee participation in discussion as factors affecting the quality of performance appraisals.i- Laird and Clampitt identified dissemination of results through the inter\ iew as one of four major problems in eon- ducting performance appraisals.17

Review of research related to performance appraisal, and especially that which deals with problems encountered, makes abundantly clear the fact that appraiser- appraisee interaction variables communication if you will- account in large part for the success or failure of performance appraisal systems. Given that fact, and accepting as an assumption that the supervisor/appraiser has the primary responsibility to see that good communication takes place, the remainder of this chapter is devoted to two topics: (1) a brief description of key communication concepts and (2t communication proli-ms inherent in performance appraisal, together with suggestions fen mitigating communi- cation problems.