---
source_path: e0_15_1_031.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0c0c376d02d1ea772e6e3b08770eaf3bd510f71b
title: e0_15_1_031
---
## n-tharacteriitics of 'he Disvision's students for some time and also paral-

els trends in adult/continuing education nationwide.

It would be helpful

to Division administrators to know the ages at which men and women participate, both to plan appropriate programs and to recruit non-participarits into classes.

he respondents to the survey were older than typical college age, which vas What was not predicted was that 20% would be between 40 and 50 Even thenthe College is

anticipated. Years otaje-and that 15% imuld be over age fifty. not serving District residents proportionate to their age distribution within, the = total population. 64, but 84% of survey respondents fall into this age group. 13%.of the District population, but only 6% of the students surveyed.

Within the District, 57% of the people are ages 18 to Seniors compose

The 50,000 adults in the District who have not completed high-sthoolor earned an.equiVr.lency certificate comprise 19.2% of the population. Based on the P I =P survey,.13% of the DiviAon's enrollmebt indicate that they have.not completed high school or GED. The Division may need to review current services as well_as_its commitment to basic education in light of the fact that it seems to be-serving proportionately fewer people who need basic education, than their reOreseitation,in the'District population as a whole.

Further, the College is serving people who are already veterans in the educa- tional system:

59 61

'

4.

0
