# --. %specific courses.

Their responses were more, bivadly distributed along the

rating scale and they saw none of the goals as "Not Applicable".

The area in which the greatest' difference among the three groups occured was the goal of certification. then administrators.

Students rated it highest, followed by instructors,

If this suggests that studentsare more ihterested in

'certification than administrators had thought, it has several implications

fir the Division. achieve certificate goals through sequential scheduling; for example? Should the College adopt agoal that aims towar6 students being able-to earn any certificate the College offers by attending only in the evening? Or another avenue might be explored. of completion for single courses or small clusters of related courses? The Division should seek further understanding of this response since basically it challenges some major assumptions the administrators appear to hold about the importance of certification to students in their programs.

Should program planners make it easier for students to

Do students want to receive certificates

Across the sample, ratings of su pp ort- services indicate that students and instrUctors'value these services far less than administrators in their descriv tion of an ideal situation. It would therefore be difficult to support working toward the administrators' ideals on the basis of these data. important to work toward a better understanding of what services part-time students perceive they need before recomi.ending further development of the services listed.

It is perhaps

Comparing administrator and instructor data related to course content indicates that course outlines may be the center of an important weakness in the Division. Instructors indicated that the College-adopted course outline was not an important guide in planning the course, while administrators suggested that the content of outlines and processes for disseminating and updating them were All of these have important implications for quality control, inadequate. both in credit and non-credit classes.

68 7i"

adminfstrators'facing the quality contro: question must also remember

that students rated the courses very positively, despite there being no regular means forstandudizing course content or procedures for. quality control that -she the. course outline.

Further cross comparisons were not possible among the summary data available since"theparallel segments in the survey instruments contained different qUestOnt, one appropriate to each group.

Cross tabulations betken selected -- Will.be made at a later date and a report of the new inforMation prepared