# These responses

6467

'Tf the Division wants a qiiality program,:and

specifiC learning objectives. one that values the use of.measurable.objectives (in outlines and in the Oissrpom)4there is a need tofocus.on-item two and develop, strategies for The data'smggest that. there is''no current process working toward.this,goal. Several questions arise. .. for" systematic' Whatis-tht.impact Of some outlinds heingaVailable while others are not? ...:Are. outlines needed-ler- every.course-the Ovision offers?- What is-their

of, adopted course outlines.

',2

- function in the educationWand administrative procesSes?' How woulcrrequiring .objeztivei stated in terms of student learning impact upon th-servic'e'train- ing and instructor eValuation? .

The data'suggest.there is a discrepancy between outlines being available and their being regularly reviewed and updated.

Revising outlines may be occuring, _- but revisions-are seldbm being filed, due, to the absence of a process. `In all,',. _ the responses to this section indicate a need tofoCus;attention on the course

.

outline processes, toencourage the, development of the kinds of outlines desired, then to create a system for making 'outlines available and for reviewing them- readily.

,

.

Administrators were asked ,to -rate. the value and kindi of information available -.to them (see table,A=8, appendix A).

Responses indicated that data on class

cancellation rates and the-abiity.of classes, they manage to affract sufficient

: students to "go" was Opined arid- obtainable. ,The item designed to find out .whether or nOt they. hathand/or desireddat&on student retention rateS,Was poorly worded,,thus contaminated the responses. -All'that can be drawn from theitei is that the average'acceptable retention rate for Division adMin- .istrators was 80 percent. administrators 'value but are not currently receiving information which would tell `them whether or not courses were helping students fulfill their goals -'for' enrolling and werp.meeting student .expectations. -thatadministrators put relatively little value on obtaining information about whfither,or not aatses encourage students' further Participation in education, .--- ._---1.----" , A Administrators indicated'that they obtained info Ma ion that 85% or more of thg clAsses.they managed were performance-Oriented. available division-midc,it is difficult to deterMine what data they Afere'. And it is probably important, too? to know admjni trators' WorPing using. They may have feltWiat the majority -definition of "Performance-:oriented," of their classes involved hands-on experience and w&e thereforC oriented. . ,

Other data in this.section'further indicate 'that'

The data also indicate

This might be an area worthy of further investigation. .

\

,

I ,

4

.