data/clean/e_issn_2240_0524__chunk0021.md, before:

## rms of career growth and personal improvement

From the Eurostat statistics explained non form al education and training is higher depending

on the age group that they belong to “In 2016, the share of non-formal learning activities in the EU-28 that was job-related rose slightly as a function of age from 78.6 % for those aged 25–34 to a peak of 82.1 % among those aged 45–54, before falling to 72.0 % among those aged 55–64”, from Eurostat (2016), the individuals with higher level of educ attainment job related as trainings, seminars with the level of 80 percent compared with the ones with lower level of education levels in the range of 75 percent.

ation had the higher percentage of educational

- 3. Research Methodology and Data Collection

Cox and Hassard (2010) explain descriptive survey a s a technique that supports collection of the data without changing the focus of the study. Which than simplifies the presenta tions of statistical and econometric models and comparisons as frequencies a nd correlations that are used in this research. This study adopted simple random sampling tech niques. Which is defined as a random sampling within a study population in order to give each me mber equal opportunity to be sampled. Data used in this paper is based on the independent resear randomly selected from the private businesses and sample covers all regions of Kosovo.

ch survey conducted by authors. The sample was public institutions, with 450 respondents. The

The main objective of this study is to explore

the employees’ perception of the trainings and

development and thus lifelong learning, by raising some research questions as;

The main research questions are: Are the employees satisfied with the selection of trainings that

organization offers? And the second research ques groups and females treated equally in training part related to trainings such as:

tion is regarding equity, Are the different aging icipation? And some other research questions

- Do they think that trainings should be compulsory in their organizations? • Does they organization offer on job trainings, or out of the job trainings , • Do they need, and have they attended Information technology trainings? • Is the attendance to the seminars and workshops helpful and job related?

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/e_issn_2240_0524__chunk0021.md, after:

---
source_path: e_issn_2240_0524.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 45851d70bd0504f3c2ceaa942bb998fa470814c5
title: e_issn_2240_0524
---
# Vol 10 No 2 March 2020

(Cheng and Hampson, 2008). Rainbird (2000) has no workplace is not for the learning purposes but it hence employees may be indifferent to dedicate suffi dedicate time to working. Whereas Bulut and Culha (2010) found that the support from managers to their employees to attend trainings is associated with higher commitment of the employees to the organization. Owoyemi et al (2011) also found th commitment to organization is higher.

tified that we have to have in mind that

’s a place for productions of goods and services, cient time and resources to learning and

at more trainings we give to employees’ their

There have been various theories to explai

n the importance of training needs in any

organization. In social learning theory, employees obtain new skills and learn how to do their job by perceiving their supervisors or other more expe erudite (Bratton and Gold, 2007). Gogunskii et al, 2016 says that employees and specialists in their fields should be able to identify which skills and knowledge they are missing, and try to find a way a s educational needs, or training needs under the te and development. As the employees grow older their motivation to attend trainings and development will not weaken from their internal forces, but als o from their supervisors’ beliefs that it’s not worth investing in them. Vianen, Dalhoeven, & De Pater, (2011).

rienced employees who they think that are more
