# Vol 10 No 2 March 2020

countries, but it is especially important in the co untries that are still in transi tion period, taking into account the lack of skills that employees might hav e. The fast change of technology is giving us the opportunity and access to a variety of information’ s and knowledge, that just in recent years it would be much difficult to find. For this reason many of us have accepted that is essential for the new technologies to be learned, and that we need to adapt with the changes that are happening. The emphasis on constant learni ng and change brings with it some interesting workf

orce challenges Ball & Gotsill (2011). Li felong Learning is important part of working life of employees as well it is important for employers, investing in im proving working skills through formal and non- formal education helps in enhancing creativity, fl exibility and productivity of employees, while for businesses investing in these skills helps them to face the challenges of competition in their field. The potential benefits of training may seem obvious, they will not necessarily follow that training analysis, and it will lead to improved performance. Organi zations nowadays should have an appropriate and effective training culture. Therefore, continuous training is a key element of improving organizational performance and the need for a determined staff de velopment process. Training is one of the tools management often uses to ensure effective responsibility of the Human Resources department. On Job training program is implemented in the working environment where the person being trained will work. The trainee learns by observing the work of experienced employees and working with curr ent work materials, personnel, and machinery under direct supervision. Chen, G., & Klimoski, R. J. (2007) argue that there is a gap in training and development theories and empirical research and that this field should be developed further, due to its importance and lack of research in macro le training effects organizational outcome.

workplace performance, which usually is the