## vel, as well as better understanding on how the

- 2. Literature Review

Employee training and development programs represent an important component of human resource management practice. The management of the compan ies should be acquainted with the level of trainings that are needed from its employees, and accordingly establish training programs that will help to optimally apply their skills in order to achieve companies objectives (Kennedy, 2009). In recent years there are changes in education system s, labor markets and the system of trainings and skills acquired. Lifelong learning according to ILO (2019), concerns also the future of the education systems and trainings, so they can be flexib globalization, and after they ente prepared for the situations as between jobs. Educ settings as universities and by attending a training, but it might also happen in less formal settings as online training, but nevertheless it has limited value if it isn’t put into practice (Cervero & Wilson, 2001). EC (2006) for the inclusion in European Union states emphasizes that the adult continuation of learning is very important in order to improve basic skills as well as di gital skills. Which, than enables better economic benefits from the learners side and from employers with increased level of skills and gaining the acquired qualification neede d for the job, and from employers side the more motivated and active workforce which have their im pact in increased profitability for the business. According to Helms (2016) employers and individuals depend on continuing education, employers in order to have highly skilled workers, and from em ployees perspective they need continuation of the education to be able to move forward in their car eer. The method of continuing education should be determined by the content and learning interest. Tr ainings and lifelong learning can be developed at any age and at any time, not only during the working hours.

le and prepare employees for the labor market,

r the labor market, to be in constant learning in o

rder to be

ation and learning can be developed in formal

The primary target of the training is to

develop and improve proficiencies, and better

understanding related to job responsibilities. Traditional training methods are replaced with learning by situation in order to be able to improve generi c skills and qualifications which can be transferre d to work. Hence knowing that most of learning acti behavior and depending on the trainees on how mu

vities and trainings invo lve transfer of learned ch they do want to transfer their knowledge

95