---
source_path: e_issn_2240_0524.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 45851d70bd0504f3c2ceaa942bb998fa470814c5
title: e_issn_2240_0524
---
# Vol 10 No 2 March 2020

(Cheng and Hampson, 2008). Rainbird (2000) has no workplace is not for the learning purposes but it hence employees may be indifferent to dedicate suffi dedicate time to working. Whereas Bulut and Culha (2010) found that the support from managers to their employees to attend trainings is associated with higher commitment of the employees to the organization. Owoyemi et al (2011) also found th commitment to organization is higher.

tified that we have to have in mind that

’s a place for productions of goods and services, cient time and resources to learning and

at more trainings we give to employees’ their

There have been various theories to explai

n the importance of training needs in any

organization. In social learning theory, employees obtain new skills and learn how to do their job by perceiving their supervisors or other more expe erudite (Bratton and Gold, 2007). Gogunskii et al, 2016 says that employees and specialists in their fields should be able to identify which skills and knowledge they are missing, and try to find a way a s educational needs, or training needs under the te and development. As the employees grow older their motivation to attend trainings and development will not weaken from their internal forces, but als o from their supervisors’ beliefs that it’s not worth investing in them. Vianen, Dalhoeven, & De Pater, (2011).

rienced employees who they think that are more
