# Abstract

In this paper authors are aiming to explore the lev el of perception on the topic of trainings from employees ’ perspective, as well as learning and development of employees after they reached the labor market and their impact in human capital. To stay competitive and su rvive in job market it is suggested to acquire higher a nd broader skills and competencies. To achieve this, i function of Human Resources Management. Therefore, impact of training and development and the concept of lifelong learning. For this research 450 questionnaires were used with the public and private institutions regarding the level of trainings they have participated. The importance of trainings increases with technological changes and information technology, globalization and a lot of other factors have their impact in importa nce of continuing adult education and lifelong learning. In this paper will be explored also what training prac management. Where from our findings we can say that most of the trainings in Kosovo are on job trainings, with highest level of participants in the age from 21- 35, this age group uses trainings for learning, age group of 36 -50 years use trainings mostly for sharing in trainings for learning and sharing information, the development. Most of the employees find trainings a trainings are positively correlated with on job tra ining Pearson Correlation 0.83 which is significant .000 at the 0.01 level (2-tailed) from the descriptive data we can find that depending on the age group and ed ucation level Information technology training s have different results. Employees with higher edu cation have less interest in Information Technology trainings compar ed to employees with lower leve ls of education. So, in general, this research aims to give a clear descriptio n of employees’ perspective regarding trainings as on job trainings, IT trainings, and their transfer of trainings to the job market some of employees use it for learning, some employees for sharing information and some for further professional development.

t is necessary to use training and development as a

the main purpose of this paper is to identify the

tices represent as a key component in human resource

formation’s, while age group 51-65 years, use mostly y also have the highest level of using trainings fo s compulsory for achieving better skills, compulsory