# Journal of Pacific Rim Psychology

the call of duty (Danish et al., 2014, Konovsky & Pugh, 1994) or the basic requirements of a job (Chang et al., 2012). Previous studies have confirmed five dimensions of OCB: conscientiousness, altruism, civic virtue, sportsmanship, and courtesy (Organ, 1988). Conscientiousness refers to discretionary behavior that goes beyond minimum-role requirements. Altruism involves helping other organizational members with relevant tasks or problems. Civic virtue indicates a willingness to participate responsibly in the life of the organization. Sportsmanship involves tolerance- related behaviors in less-than-desirable situations to avoid com- plaints being made. Lastly, courtesy refers to efforts to prevent work-related problems with others (Mackenzie, Podsakoff, & Fetter, 1993). Williams and Anderson (1991) proposed a concep- tualization of OCB with two factors: OCB individual (OCB-I) and OCB organization (OCB-O). OCB-I considers a specific individual to be the target of employees’ behavior, while OCB-O regards the organization as the primary beneficiary. Following Williams and Anderson’s (1991) classification, Organ (1997) classified altruism andcourtesyasOCB-I,andconscientiousness,sportsmanship,and civic virtue as OCB-O.

research has shown that tasks, organizational characteristics, and leadership are common predictors of OCB (Podsakoff et al., 2000). Several studies have uncovered the differential influences of these antecedents on OCB-I and OCB-O (Spitzmuller, Dyne, & Ilies, 2008). With respect to leadership, a recent meta-analysis by Ilies, Nahrgang, and Morgeson (2007) shows a strong relationship between leader– member exchange and OCB-I. Likewise, Kamdar and Van Dyne (2007) discovered thatwhenthere isa high-qualityrelationshipwith the leader, employees tend to reciprocate with OCB-I directed at the leader. However, Aryee, Budhwar, and Chen (2002) revealed that when employees trust leaders – one of the key components of social exchange (Blau, 1964) – they exhibit both OCB-I and OCB-O. However, perceived organizational support that is triggered by sup- portiveleadershiphasbeenfoundtobemorerelatedtoOCB-O than to OCB-I (Moorman, Blakely, & Niehoff, 1998; Muhammad, 2014). Empirical studies have concluded that satisfactory interpersonal treatment by leaders activates more OCB-I, whereas high-perceived organizational support impacts OCB-O more than OCB-I.

Concerning the antecedents of OCB, prior

Inclusive leadership may have a positive impact on employ- ees’ OCB in three ways. First, based on social exchange theory (Blau, 1964), the supportive behaviors of inclusive leaders result in the perception among employees that they have received favorable treatment, which motivates them to act reciprocally to the leader and the organization (Wang, 2008). Performing OCB is one likely way for employees to reciprocate (Aryee et al., 2002; Konovsky & Pugh, 1994; Organ, 1988). Prior studies have supported the idea that good supervisor support is critical for the development of OCB (Liu, 2009). Second, employees may exhibit OCB by observing inclusive leaders’ behaviors. Inclusive leaders with helping behaviors, such as availability to offer assistance to others, can be regarded as credible models by employees; therefore, employees are likely to exhibit such sup- portive helping behaviors to others. Finally, the supportive behaviors of inclusive leaders contribute to building employees’ trust in leaders (Hollander, 2009). Meanwhile, Podsakoff, MacKenzie, Morrman, and Fetter (1990) addressed how “trust in leaders has been found to be relevant to the leader-directed citizenship behavior dimensions of altruism, conscientiousness, sportsmanship, and courtesy”. Based on this reasoning, we pro- pose Hypothesis 1: Inclusive leadership positively influences employees’ organizational citizenship behaviors.

Inclusive leadership and organizational justice Organizational justice is defined as employees’ perception of the extent to which they are treated fairly and honestly (Elovainio et al., 2005). Danish et al. (2014) shared the view that organiza- tional justice refers to the fairness perceptions of individuals in terms of how organizations treat them financially, ethically, and in accordance with rules and regulations. Conceptually, organiza- tional justice includes three main elements: distributive justice, procedural justice, and interactional justice. Distributive justice refers to the perceived fairness of the outcomes that an individual receives from an organization. The fairness of distribution of out- comes is perceived differently based on comparison with others (Alsalem & Alhaiani, 2007). Accordingly, individual satisfaction is a function of outcomes. In contrast, procedural justice refers to the perceived fairness of the rules and procedures that regulate a process (Nabatchi, Bingham, & Good, 2007). The key principles for enhancing perceptions of procedural justice comprise impar- tiality, voice or opportunity to be heard, and grounds for decisions (Bayles, 1990). Procedural justice views satisfaction as afunction of processes and procedures. Specifically, when employees perceive organizational processes and procedures to be fair, they will be more satisfied and likely to exhibit positive attitudes about the organization (Bingham, 1997; Tyler & Lind, 1992). Interactional justice refers to the perceived fairness of interpersonal treatment received during the enactment of organizational procedures (Bies & Moag, 1986). Examples of interactional justice include actions that display social sensitivity, such as when supervisors treat employees with respect and dignity. Interactional justice con- sists of two subcategories: informational justice and interpersonal justice (Folger & Cropanzano, 1998). Research has identified that these two subconstructs overlap considerably, but they should be separated because each exerts differential effects on justice percep- tions (Colquitt, 2001; Colquitt, Conlon, Wesson, & Porter, 2001). In the relationship with OCB, interactional justice has been more strongly associated with OCB-I (Masterson, Lewis-McClear, Goldman, & Taylor, 2000; Colquitt et al., 2001). Conversely, sev- eral studies have found a strong linkage between procedural justice perceptions and OCB-O (Colquitt et al., 2001; Masterson et al., 2000; Organ & Ryan, 1995). We argue that inclusive leadership positively affects organizational justice for two reasons. First, by beingopenandaccessible todiscuss employees’needs, suggestions, and problems encountered, inclusive leaders may instil in employ- ees the impression that their voices are heard and that they are involved in collective decision making (Bayles, 1990). This means that a high level of procedural justice is perceived among employees (Bayles, 1990). Second, inclusive leadership also helps to enhance interactional justice because the supportive behaviors of inclusive leaders make employees feel that they are treated with respect, and so the perceived interpersonal justice is high (Folger & Cropanzano, 1998). Further, the open behaviors to discuss issues with employees may foster informational justice because employees are more likely to perceive that they are provided with all the neces- sary information for their work (Folger & Cropanzano, 1998). Hence, we propose Hypothesis 2: Inclusive leadership positively influences perceived organizational justice.