# 2

According to Podsakoff et al. (2000), the mechanisms through which leaders’ behaviors influence OCB are unclear, and so they deserve future examination. In the meantime, the literature has documented the relationships between organizational justice, organizational learning culture, leadership (Armagan & Erzen, 2015; Zagorsek, Dimovski, & Skerlavaj, 2009), and OCB (Danish et al., 2014). Nevertheless, a review of prior research suggests that few studies have investigated the mediating influence of organiza- tional justice and organizational learning culture on the leader- ship–employee OCB relationship. For instance, Zehir, Akyuzb, Eren, and Turhan’s study (2013) is a welcome example that exam- ined the mediating role of organizational justice between servant leadership and OCB; however, the study did not evaluate the role of organizational learning culture as a mediator. Additionally, the literature on inclusive leadership has only disclosed the mediating roles of individual psychological constructs, such as psychological safety(Carmelietal.,2010)andemployees’organizationalaffective commitment and creativity (Choi, Tran, & Park, 2015) in the rela- tionship between inclusive leadership and employee positive behavior. Little has been found on the mediating role of contextual factors such as organizational justice and organizational learning culture. To cover the aforementioned theoretical gaps, this study aimstoinvestigatetheeffectofinclusiveleadershiponOCB,aswell as the mediating roles of organizational justice and organizational learning culture in this relationship, from the perspective of social exchange theory.

Previous studies have explained leaders’ influences on subordi- nates’ behaviors through social exchange processes characterized by social exchange theory (Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995; Keller & Dansereau, 1995). Social exchange theory (Blau, 1964) postulates that when receiving favorable treatment from an agent, the receiv- ing party attempts to reciprocate with something equally valuable (Wang, 2008). Thus, social exchange theory provides an important theoretical lens on leaders’ behaviors and their contribution to their followers’ desired outcomes; this tenet lends support to the linkage between inclusive leadership and OCB, and the mediating roles of organizational justice and learning culture.

Inclusive leaders’ support and helping behaviors, based on key features such as high availability and openness (Carmeli et al., 2010; Nembhard & Edmonson, 2006), can make employees feel that they are receiving favorable treatment from the organization. Carmeli et al. (2010) investigated the effects of inclusive leadership on employee creativity in the context of the R&D teams of knowl- edge-intensive organizations. The results of this study show that inclusive leadership promoted psychological safety; this, in turn, increased employee involvement in creative work. Nembhard and Edmonson(2006)conductedastudythatevaluatedtheeffectofpro- fessionalstatusonpsychologicalsafetyinhealthcareteams,andthey foundthatleaderinclusivenesshelpedcross-disciplinaryteamsover- cometheinhibitingeffectsofstatusdifferences,allowingmembersto collaborate in process improvement. The authors indicated that a leader’s active and inclusive behavior was the key factor in promot- ingfollowers’engagementinteam-basedqualityimprovementwork. Increased attention from inclusive leaders to employees’ needs and interests may induce high levels of perceived organizational support among employees. Therefore, employees who receive favorable treatment from leaders and the organization attempt to increase their voluntary commitment within the organization to promote its effective functioning.

We also grounded the mediating roles of organizational justice and learning culture in this theory. Inclusive leader behavior may positively impact organizational justice and organizational