## Organizational learning culture and organizational citizenship behaviors

We argue that in a learning organization, employees are more likely to perform OCB because of their motivations. First, organi- zational learning culture, as an environmental characteristic of the organization (Danish et al., 2014), affects employee behaviors like OCB. Specifically, an organizational learning culture provides employees with immense prospects to learn through active partici- pation(Armenakis,Harris,&Mossholder,1993)andhenceenhan- ces employees’ learning about positive attitudes and behaviors that arenotpartoftheirroles(Danishetal.,2014).Second,accordingto LePine and Van Dyne (2001), developing an organizational system approach and shared values, a characteristic of a learning organi- zation (Watkins & Marsick, 1997), encourages employees to help colleagues, especially in difficult circumstances such as overload, stress, and low capability. In highly interdependent jobs that emphasize conformity to standards, cooperative behavior that helps colleagues may be a key source of increasing overall organi- zational performance (LePine & Van Dyne, 2001). Third, organi- for zational reciprocal exchange among employees, promoting employees’ interaction and knowledge sharing (Confessore & Kops, 1998; Islam et al., 2012). The intensity of interaction promotes helping behaviors toward others, or OCB-I (Chang, Tseng, & Chen, 2012; Podsakoff et al., 2000), because interaction and involvement in knowledge sharing help to strengthen their relationships with others (Li et al., 2010). Finally, employees of a learning-oriented organization tend to be provided with rich informational resources (Yang et al., 2004). In light of social exchange theory, perceptions of receiving sufficient information resources reduce employees’ uncertainties about work-related issues and thus make them satis- fied (Feldman & Bolino, 1999), which motivates them to recipro- cate with the organization by exhibiting OCB (Bateman & Organ, 1983). Therefore, we propose Hypothesis 5: Organizational learn- ing culture positively influences employees’ organizational citizen- ship behaviors.

learning culture facilitates better opportunities