# Respondents and procedure

Based on alistof the500 largest enterprises in Vietnam, weinitially contacted eight companies in the service industry – specifically, five banks and three hospitality companies –for data collection. Four out of these eight companies showed a willingness to be involved in our study: two banking and two hospitality companies. We purposefully selected these companies based on two main cri- teria. First, being in the service industry, their employees are more likely to show OCB because OCB has been given more attention in the services industry than in the production industry (Moorman, 1991; Sharif, Yaqub, & Baig, 2015). Second, through our initial interviews with these companies’ HR executives, we learned that their employees exhibit OCB. In the sample, 64% of the respon- dents were male, 77% were aged between 25 and 39, 16% were aged below 25, and only 7% were aged above 40. In terms of the highest level of education attained, 73% had earned a bachelor’s degree, while 19% had a postgraduate degree, and 8% had an educational level below a bachelor’s degree. Finally, 42% had been working from 5 to 10 years in their current organization, 36% had an organizational tenure of 2 to 4 years, 18% had an organizational

tenure of less than 2 years, and 4% had an organizational tenure of more than 10 years.

We used a questionnaire to collect the data. This questionnaire was initially written in English and then translated to Vietnamese. To ensure meaning compatibility between the translated and the original questionnaire, we used back-translation processes, as sug- gested by Brislin (1980), until the translated questionnaire became appropriately representative of the original one. The questionnaire consisted of four closed-ended, multiple-choice questions on the employees’ demographic information and 43 statements to mea- sure the study’s constructs. The questionnaires were distributed in person to employees at their workplaces.

The respondents provided the answers during their lunch- breaks. Out of 400 employees contacted for data collection, 286 provided responses. Of these responses, 18 questionnaires were removed owing to omission errors and incorrect answers. Eventually, 268 responses were used for subsequent data analysis, with an effective response rate of 67% (268/400). Of these 268 generated responses, the majority was from banking companies (150/268) while the remainder was from hospitality companies (118/268).

In addition, we also checked the effect of the company variable by using a one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) to compare the means of key variables (i.e. age, education background, tenure, and inclusive leadership) among the four companies. The results showed no significant company effect on our data, as none of the variable’s means were statistically different across the compa- nies (p > .05).