---
source_path: effects_of_inclusive_leadership_on_organizational_citizenship_behavior_the_media.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 41792cc54903d197006557d02d3282f068c81e0a
title: effects_of_inclusive_leadership_on_organizational_citizenship_behavior_the_media
---
## Inclusive leadership and organizational learning culture

An organizational learning culture refers to an organization that is skilled at “creating, acquiring, and transferring knowledge, and modifying its behavior to reflect new knowledge and insights” (Garvin, 1993, p. 80). Confessore and Kops (1998) revealed that in a learning organization, teamwork, collaboration, creativity, and knowledge processes have meaning and value. Yang, Watkins, and Marsick (2004) added that organizational learning culture involves seven action imperatives: continuous learning, inquiry and dialog, team learning, empowerment, an embedded system, system connection, and strategic leadership. Specifically, continu- ous to create continuous learning opportunities for all of its members. Inquiry anddialogrefertopromotingquestioning,feedback,andexperimen- tation. Team learning specifies the encouragement of collaboration and team learning. Empowerment indicates processes to create andshareacollectivevision.Anembeddedsystemsignifiesanorgan- ization’s efforts to establish systems to capture and share learning. System connection refers to global thinking and actions to connect the organization to its internal and external environments. Finally, strategic leadership reflects the extent to which leaders’ model and support learning at the individual, team, and organizational levels. We assume that inclusive leader behaviors may influence organizational learning culture. We reason that a leader’s invita- tion for employees to offer their input engenders a perception among employees that their leader and organization value new knowledge sharing and discussion. When a leader allows the expression of different views and ideas, challenges old assumptions and beliefs, and stimulates new perspectives, employees enjoy more opportunities to speed up knowledge acquisition and distri- bution (Zagorsek et al., 2009). Moreover, a leader’s availability to provide help and to respond to employees’ questions and problems signals the organization’s appreciation and commitment to improving employees’ continuous learning (Ratten, 2008). This is because prompt help and responses from inclusive leaders may provide sufficient opportunities for employees to learn new things and to develop their skills, knowledge, and cognitive think- ing (Carmeli et al., 2010; Choi et al., 2015). To illustrate, Nishii and Mayer (2009) showed that inclusive leaders are more likely to

learning represents an organization’s efforts
