data/clean/effects_of_inclusive_leadership_on_organizational_citizenship_behavior_the_media__chunk0027.md, before:

# Thi Bich Hanh Tran and Suk Bong Choi

the organization, seems more appropriate in estimating the influ- ence of the organizational learning culture on the individual’s behavior toward the organization (i.e. OCB). We found that this approach of organizational learning culture is often used and is consistent with past research (Islam et al., 2012; Joo, 2010; Joo & Shim, 2010; Marsick & Watkins, 2003; Naqshbandi & Tabche, 2018).

Assessment of common method variance In accordance with Podsakoff, MacKenzie, Lee, and Podsakoff’s (2003) suggestion that assuring respondents of confidentiality can help reduce respondents’ evaluation apprehension and make them less likely to edit their responses to be socially desirable, we minimized common method bias by assuring respondents of our commitment to confidentiality. We stated this on the cover let- ter attached to each questionnaire. The common method variance (CMV)wasassessed usingHarman’s single-factortest forallitems. The results suggest that no general factor emerged to account for the majority of the variance. An unrotated factor analysis extracted four distinct factors that accounted for 70.4% of the total variance. The largest factor explained 38.2% of the variance. Thus, CMV did not appear to be a problem in this analysis. In addition, the variance inflation factors (VIF) were calculated to check multicol- linearity. VIF values ranged from 1.08 to 1.50, suggesting that there was no serious problem concerning multicollinearity issues (Neter, Wasserman, & Kutner, 1989).

In addition, we also implemented the marker variable test to evaluatetheCMVissuefurtherinouranalysisbyfollowingtherec- ommendations of Lindell and Whitney (2001) and Williams, Hartman, and Cavazotte (2010). These studies reported that many researchers have used the correlational marker technique even though they use latent variable methods to test their substantive hypotheses (Lindell & Whitney, 2001; Williams et al., 2010). Our study examines the effects of inclusive leadership (IL), organi- zational justice (OJ), and organizational learning culture (OLC) on OCB in a cross-sectional study. Thus, first, we suppose that a fourth predictor, educational level, was identified a priori as being theoretically unrelated to our dependent variable (i.e. OCB). Accordingly, it was placed in the correlation analysis between the dependent variable and the other predictors to serve as the MV-marker variable. Thus, we have conducted the hypothetical correlation test among three predictors (IL, OJ, OLC), the marker variable (MV), and the dependent variable (OCB). The data support our model by confirming that three theoretically relevant predictorshave statistically significant correlationswiththedepen- dent variable, whereas the theoretically irrelevant predictor (marker variable: educational level) has a non-significant correla- tion with the dependent variable. Moreover, the correlations of the MV-marker variable with the other predictor variables are low. These low correlations with the other predictor variables further support the discriminant validity of the MV-marker variable.

The result shows that the correlations for the three predictors (IL, OJ, OLC) with the dependent variable (OCB) are significant even before the CMV adjustment is applied. We controlled for CMV by using rOCB4 = .106 as the estimate of rs (see more infor- mation onapplication ofequations4and5inLindell andWhitney, 2001, p. 116); the results indicate that the correlations of all three predictors (IL, OJ, OLC) with the dependent variable (OCB) remain statistically significant even when CMV is controlled (IL = .443, p < .01; OJ = .330, p < .01; OLC = .187, p < .01). Moreover, these correlations have practical significance because

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/effects_of_inclusive_leadership_on_organizational_citizenship_behavior_the_media__chunk0027.md, after:

---
source_path: effects_of_inclusive_leadership_on_organizational_citizenship_behavior_the_media.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5c984c53e0edb86f8827237f1f9962bf8f5b825a
title: effects_of_inclusive_leadership_on_organizational_citizenship_behavior_the_media
---
# 6

get answers from across the organization while solving problems”. Naqshbandi and Tabcheh (2018) also used a similar measure and reported the scale reliability with Cronbach’s alpha of .78. The study found that there was a positive mediating role of organiza- tional learning culture in the relationships between empowering leadership and open innovation. The Cronbach’s alpha for our scale was .929.

OCB was measured with 16 items adapted from Lee and Allen (2002). Sample items are “I assist others with their duties” and “I offer ideas to improve the functioning of the organization”. All of the items were measured on a 7-point Likert-type scale, from 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree). The scale reliability was reported by Lee and Allen (2002), with Cronbach’s alphas of .83 (OCB-I) and .88 (OCB-O). They found that there was a positive association between job effect and OCB. The Cronbach’s alpha for our scale was .970.

To take into account systematic variations in individual responses, four individual difference variables were included as control variables:gender,age,educational level, andorganizational tenure. These four demographic variables were assessed using standard survey questions. It is true that some researchers may treat inclusive leadership and organizational learning literature as team-level variables. However, our study treated both inclusive leadership and organizational learning culture as individual-level variables that are based on individual employees’ perceptions of their leader and organization.

First, our interest in this study lies in the influence of inclusive leadership in fostering a specific behavior and outcome at the indi- vidual level, and the impact of an inclusive leader’s behaviors on individuals’ attitudes and behavior toward their organization (i.e. OCB). In this regard, employees’ evaluations of their immedi- ate leader’s or supervisor’s inclusive leadership behavior rather than their leader’s self-rating is more appropriate for our study. It has been found that leaders’ attention and behavior toward followers’ needs in terms of leaders’ openness, accessibility and availability, which are key features of inclusive leadership, can be more accurately evaluated by individual followers who had interactions with the leader (Hollander, 2009). The construct of inclusion is particularly central to our understanding of inclusive leadership. In this respect, Shore et al. (2011, p. 1265) pointed out that the definition of inclusion is “the degree to which an employee perceives that he or she is an esteemed member of the work group through experiencing treatment that satisfies his or her needs for belongingness and uniqueness”. This conceptualization of inclusive leadership at the individual level is consistent with past research (Carmeli et al., 2010; Choi et al., 2017). As many leader- ship studies have found, this is also consistent with the fact that employees working with the same leader are likely to experience similar leadership behavior (Kirkman, Chen, Farh, Chen, & Lowe, 2009; Walumbwa, Hartnell, & Oke, 2010).

Second, it is also possible that some researchers prefer to treat organizational learning culture as the organization-level variable, but we regard the organizational learning culture as an individ- ual-level variable. Our focus in this study is the effect of organiza- tional culture in promoting a specific work and organizational environment for employees, such as creating continuous learning opportunities and supporting all of its members, and how these work environment characteristics have impacts on individual per- ceptionsandattitudestowardtheorganization.Therefore,estimat- ing an individual’s personnel experience with the organizational learning environment, and the individual’s affective evaluation based on their participation in learning activities provided by
