## Inclusive leadership and organizational citizenship behaviors

leader inclusiveness was first introduced by The concept of Nembhard and Edmondson (2006). They proposed “leader inclu- siveness, defined as words and deeds by a leader or leaders that indicate an invitation and appreciation for others’ contributions” (p. 947). Later, theconstructof inclusive leadershipwas specifically developed by Carmeli et al. (2010). They defined the inclusive leadership as “leaders who exhibit openness, accessibility, and availability in their interactions with followers” (p. 250).

Since its introduction, this conceptualization has been widely accepted and adopted for use in later studies of inclusive leadership (Choi, Tran, & Kang, 2017). It has been regarded as a mode of rela- tional leadership that focuses on leaders’ attention to followers’ needs (Hollander, 2009). Hollander (2009) suggested that inclusive leaders alwaysprovidesupportfortheir followers.Some exemplary characteristics of inclusive leaders include open communication to invite input from followers, concern about the interests, expecta- tions and feelings of their followers, and being available and willing to provide assistance to their followers (Hollander, 2009). As such, inclusive leadership shares some similarities with servant leader- ship, in which leaders show a willingness to listen to followers’ ideas, care for followers’ needs, and provide support for followers to complete their tasks (Van Dierendonck, 2010). However, with a focus on three types of supportive behaviors (Carmeli et al., 2010), inclusive leadership is more specific. Inclusive leadership is also in line with other leadership styles such as transformational leader- ship, by creating motivations for followers (Choi et al., 2015). inclusive leadership is particularly attentive to followers’ Yet, needs (Hollander, 2009), while the emphasis of transformational leadership is more on achieving shared or organizational goals (Kanungo, 2001). According to Nishii and Mayer (2009), inclusive leadersmaypromoteemployees’skills,autonomy,andresponsibil- ity.Nonetheless,astheconceptisrathernew,empiricalresearchon the outcomes of inclusive leadership is lacking. The available liter- ature has merely documented the impact of inclusive leadership on employee involvement in creative tasks (Carmeli et al., 2010), organizational affective commitment and work engagement (Choi et al., 2015), employee well-being and innovative behavior (Choi et al., 2017), employee voice behavior, and team perfor- mance (Qi & Liu, 2017).

OCB refers to meaningful behaviors, which are not restricted to those written in the employment contract, and cooperative behav- iors, which are not directly recognized by a formal reward system (Organ, 1990). OCB generally includes behaviors that go beyond