## Limitations and directions for future research

Although this study has important implications, we should men- tionthelimitationsintheresearchaswell.First,asacross-sectional study, our study is restricted from making causal inferences on the relationship between inclusive leadership and OCB. We have assumed that inclusive leadership enhances OCB. However, it is possible that some aspect of OCB may cause leaders to exhibit more inclusive behaviors toward employees who help the leaders and others in the organization than toward employees who do not. Future studies should conduct longitudinal research or systematic experiments to investigate the causality between inclusive leader- ship and OCB.

Second, the ratings of all the variables were collected from the sameemployees,whichmayresultininflatedrelationshipsbecause of single-source effects. Future researchers are encouraged to collect data from various sources. Third, future research may attempt a replication of our results using different industries and multilevel samples, as our sample was limited to employees of four companies in the service industry in the Vietnamese con- text. Future research may attempt a replication of our results using larger and more generalized samples. Third, we included two mediators in the relationship between inclusive leadership and OCB (i.e. organizational justice and organizational learning cul- ture), and found a partial mediation effect of both mediators. Therefore, we call for future research to explore the other useful variables that are fully mediating the relationship between inclu- sive leadership and OCB. For instance, this research explained the relationships between inclusive leadership and OCB, and organizational justice and OCB through employee trust and satis- faction while not directly examining these two variables as medi- ators. Future research may consider including employee trust and satisfaction as mediating mechanisms.

Finally, our study was limited to providing the differential effects of inclusive leadership on OCB-I and OCB-O. Future research may therefore need to explore why and how a specific leadership type influences different aspects of OCB. In addition, we applied employees’ perceptions of inclusive leadership and organizational learning culture, which seemed more appropriate because our study focused on individuals’ perceptions and behav- iortowardtheirleaderandtheorganizationasthecentral predictor of individual-level OCB (Cable & Judge, 1997). However, future studies should consider both team and organizational level treat- ments, and further investigate the mechanisms and outcomes from multilevel approaches linking the distinct results of each approach, to strengthen the theoretical and empirical implications of the inclusive leadership effect.