# Discussion

Our study has three principal contributions. First, it extends the application of the social exchange theory by applying it to under- standing key determinants of OCB. Drawing on social exchange theory, the findings of the present study indicate that social exchange theory is one of the most powerful means of explaining how leaders’ behavior contributes to transmitting employees’ values, attitudes, and behaviors to OCB (Konovsky & Pugh, 1994; Trevi˜no, 2005). The results in the current research add to theexistingstudiesonOCBbyidentifyingthemotivesandinvolve- mentmechanism for engaging in OCB inrelation to inclusive lead- ership through the social exchange process (Bowler & Brass, 2006; Rioux&Penner,2001).Thismaypromptfuture studiestofocuson a social exchange process to explain the effects of other leadership styles, such as transformational leadership, authentic leadership and ethical leadership, on OCB.

Second, as the first study to examine the effects of inclusive leadership on OCB, our study contributes to enriching the existing literature on both leadership and OCB. We found that inclusive leadership was an effective way to catalyze employee OCB (Carmeli et al., 2010). Our findings on the positive relation- ship between inclusive leadership and employee OCB is also con- gruentwiththeresultsofpreviousleadershipstudiesthatshowthat supportive leaders’ behavior induces employees’ voluntary behav- iors for enhancing organizational effectiveness (Farooqui, 2012). This may attract scholarly attention to the study of inclusive lead- ership in relation to other individual and organizational outcomes. Last, but not least, this study uncovered an underlying mecha- nism linking leadership and OCB by identifying the significant roles of organizational justice and organizational learning culture for OCB in the relationship. While prior studies accentuated these two constructs as antecedents of OCB (Danish et al., 2014) or the consequences ofleadership(Zagorseketal.,2009),thisstudyfound that organizational justice and learning culture positively mediated the relationship between inclusive leadership and OCB. Thus, the study raises the possibility of the mediating mechanism linking other specific leadership styles to employee behaviors.

In addition, our study addressed the idea that both organiza- tional learning culture had positive effects on OCB. This result provided an important resource for understanding country-specific and industry-specific contexts affecting individual behaviors and attitudes toward organizations in Vietnam, which is our research context. Vietnam is strongly influenced by Confucianism (Nguyen, 2011), in which collectiv- ism, group-orientation and cooperative work styles are highly valued (House, Hanges, Javidan, Dorfman, & Gupta, 2004). This cultural context leads Vietnamese people to pay attention to learn- ing and helping others in the organization (Phuong-Mai, Terlouw, & Pilot, 2005). We also recognized that our study focused on the employees of banking and hospitality companies, which have recently faced intense competition due to the entrance of strong foreign competitors (Nguyen & Nguyen, 2012). Thus, organiza- tional learning in these companies has been promoted as a key source of organizational survival as well as a driver of employees’ positive behaviors, like OCB, to contribute to the improvement of the organization (Imam, Abbasi, Muneer, & Qadri, 2013).