# Abstract

The aim of this article is to examine the causal relationship between inclusive leadership and employees’ organizational citizenship behavior (OCB) of Vietnam service workers. This article also examines the mediating roles of organizational justice and organizational learning culture in this causal relationship. We collected data via a questionnaire survey of a sample of 268 employees from four service firms in Vietnam. The results showed that inclusive leadership is positively related to OCB. Moreover, both organizational justice and organizational learning culture played partial mediating roles in the inclusive leadership–OCB relationship. The find- ings advance the literature on leadership by studying an underexplored type of leadership in relation to employee OCB. They also extend our knowledge of organizational justice and learn- ing culture by specifying these as mediators in the mechanisms of employee inclusive leader- ship–OCB relations. The article thus adds to a body of work in which OCB is connected with leaders’ behavior and organizational level predictors.

Recently, organizational citizenship behavior (OCB) has received increasing attention from researchers. A critical review of the literature on OCB (Podsakoff, McKenzie, Paine, & Bacharach, 2000) suggested that the number of studies of OCB has not only increased dramati- cally in the field of organizational behavior, but has also expanded to a variety of domains and disciplines, such as human resource management and marketing. About 66% of the studies related to OCB have been published since the turn of the 21st century (Podsakoff et al., 2009). These studies have identified the significant role of OCB in both individual and organi- zational performance (Danish, Munir, Ishaq, & Arshad, 2014). For example, Cohen and Vigoda (2000) discovered that the main organizational benefits resulting from OCB include improved co-worker and managerial productivity, reduced maintenance expenses, superior efficiency in resource use and allocation, and improved organizational attractiveness for high-quality new recruits.

Podsakoff, Whiting, Podsakoff, and Blume (2009) conducted a meta-analysis of the conse- quencesofOCBandconcludedthatOCBservesasasignificantdriverofvariousindividual-level (i.e. performance evaluations, reward allocation decisions, and turnover intentions) and organi- zational-level consequences (i.e. organizational effectiveness, customer satisfaction, and group- or unit-level turnover). Thus, it is critical to study the factors that may significantly catalyze employees’ OCB (Khan & Rashid, 2012).

Among the organizational factors that can influence OCB, leadership and organizational cultures have attracted the interest of researchers (Danish et al., 2014). Graham (1988) and Podsakoff et al. (1990) posited that leadership style influences subordinates’ OCB. Lian and Tui (2012) specified that a leader needs to be aware of his or her leadership style in work sit- uations and how it promotes subordinates’ OCB, because an inappropriate leadership style may lead to negative consequences, such as a decline in work performance and absenteeism (Motowidlo, 2003).

Among a variety of specific leadership styles in relation to OCB, transformational leadership is related to a higher level of employee OCB (Goodwin, Wofford, & Whittington, 2001; Mackenzie, Podsakoff, & Rich, 2001; Wang, Law, Hackett, Wang, & Chen, 2005) because it motivates employees by getting them to internalize and prioritize a larger collective cause over individual interests (Lian & Tui, 2012). Meanwhile, Farooqui (2012) added that several dimen- sions of leadership, such as supportive management and leaders’ contingent reward behaviors, exertimpacts onOCB. Even though Carmeli, Palmon, andZiv (2010)investigated“the effects of inclusive leadership on employees’ behaviors, it limited to their involvement in creative tasks in workplace”. However, few studies have been dedicated to the effect of inclusive leadership on OCB. In this study, we argue that when a leader exercises an inclusive style, employees are likely to perform OCB because inclusive leaders create tremendous motivation for employees by focusing on their needs (Hollander, 2009).