---
source_path: emerald_rege_rege603931_84_101.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ef4bf2efe9071c437dc42a5342f5b4192f3dfa6b
title: emerald_rege_rege603931_84_101
---
# REGE 25,1

who less plan on leaving the enterprise, which in turn results in lower absence, better performance and increased productivity.

90

The meta-analysis of Hellman (1997), made with 50 studies, had an objective to clearly show the relation that exists between job satisfaction and turnover intention. The results suggest a relation significantly different of zero and negative in studies realized in the USA (Winterton, 2004). Du et al. (2006) identified that the variable job satisfaction affects turnover intention significantly. In Brazil, Ferreira and Siqueira (2005) concluded that the variable turnover intention presents negative correlation with the job satisfaction significantly, as well as suggest that this is a direct background of the first one (Tett and Meyer, 1993; Griffeth et al., 2000). Next, the methodology of the research is described.

- 3. Method The purpose of the present research is to present a descriptive formal case study of qualitative and quantitative nature. Cooper and Schindler (2003) affirmed that the case studies emphasize on the contextual analyses with few facts or conditions and its interrelations. Godoy (2007) suggested that descriptive research works have an objective to describe the characteristics of determined population or phenomenon. The independent (affective, normative and variables of instrumental), job satisfaction (satisfaction with the salary, with the colleagues of the workplace, with the bosses, with the promotions and with the nature of the job) and demographic factors (age, gender, marital status, schooling, time in service, actuation area and senior level in occupied function). The dependent variable is the turnover intention. The place chosen to make this research was T.E.C (fictional name); one of the few private institutes of development and research in Brazil, located in the Northeast region of the country. The T.E.C has been for over ten years and has about 400 direct employees. The population of this study is the celetistas[1] workers of T.E.C who work in IT area.

A questionnaire was applied in the Human Capital area of T.E.C, at the workplace of each responder or in work reunions. From total research population, 261 employees of IT area of T.E.C participated inthe study, and returnsindex of 65.9 percent was obtained, corresponding to 172 responders. The instrument of this research was a questionnaire self-applied with an open question. This type of instrument is considered by Cooper and Schindler (2003) as a way to question the responder through a set of questions, but without the intervention of the researcher. The first part of the questionnaire had the objective of charactering the level of dimensions of organizational commitment. For that, an instrument with 18 items was adopted with a Likert-type scale with variation from 1 to 5 that originally was applied by Meyer et al. (1993) and previously validated in Brazil by Medeiros and Enders (1998). The dimensions are affective commitment (Cronbach’s α 0.85), instrumental commitment (Cronbach’s α 0.78) and normative commitment (Cronbach’s α 0.73). The instrument approaches the three factors of organizational commitment.

The second part of the questionnaire measured the turnover intention. For that, the unifactorial Turnover Intention Scale was used with three items (Cronbach’s α 0.95) by Siqueira, Gomide Junior (2004). The Likert scale had five points: (1) never; (2) rarely; (3) sometimes; (4) often; (5) forever.

In the third part of the questionnaire, the Job Satisfaction Scale was used by Siqueira (2008). This reduced version of the questionnaire with 15 items is composed by following dimensions: satisfaction with colleagues in workplace (Cronbach’s α 0.81), satisfaction with the salary (Cronbach’s α 0.90), satisfaction with the bosses (Cronbach’s α 0.84), satisfaction with the nature of the job (Cronbach’s α 0.77) and satisfaction with the promotions (Cronbach’s α 0.81) – each factor with three items (Siqueira, 2008). The Likert scale that was used in satisfaction measurement had five points that go from “very unsatisfy” to “very satisfy.”

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:114)(cid:101)(cid:103)(cid:101)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:47)(cid:49)(cid:47)(cid:56)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:50)(cid:56)(cid:57)(cid:55)(cid:52)(cid:49)(cid:47)(cid:114)(cid:101)(cid:103)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:49)(cid:50)(cid:45)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:49)(cid:55)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:56)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)

The fourth part of the questioner consists of an open question that solicited the responders to write in few words what makes them to remain working at the institute. The last part of the questionnaire consists of demographic data of the responders.

At thequantitativepart, thesoftwareSPSSwasused toanalyzeand interpret theresultsand the data were submitted for a descriptive statistical analysis through parameters as media, standard deviation and frequency. Besides that, a case study was proceeded to find the correlation with the intention to identify the measure of the relation among the variables: the dependent variable (turnover intention) and the independent variables (affective, normative and instrumental commitment) and job satisfaction (aspect: salary, promotion, colleagues, bosses and task nature). The multiple linear regressiontechnique wasalsoused to estimate the value of the researched variables with the weighted values identified above; after identifying the normal distribution of the data, stepwise method was opted that is the most used technique to select variables (Cooper and Schindler, 2003), while F-test is appropriate in exploratory stages of the research to identify the useful sub-conjunct of predictors and add the most significant variable or remove the variable identified as less significant, being coherent with the objectives of the research and elements of worked constructs in dependent and independent variables. The regression may be a great ally to correlation, if there is interest in intensity or strength of the association among variables (Levin and Fox, 2004). According to Abbad and Torres (2002), research works in the organizational behavioral area delineated to examine the effect caused by two or more independent variables over a dependent variable use this technique of analysis. This technique was adopted because there was an objective of this study that seeks to identify what are the main predictors of turnover intention (dependent variable).

The open question in the questionnaire was idealized with the aim of supporting and sustaining the quantitative analysis of precited data and to identify which other variables, beyond the contemplation in this study influence the performance of institute responders. For that, it was submitted to a content analysis; according to Bardin’s (2008) definitions, it was opted because of the suitability of her method to reach the objectives, as well as she is the author of reference in the content analysis. The stages of analyses were data collecting, themes identification and thematic categories formation. The data collection was realized by the junction of all responses of the participant to the open question in the questionnaire. From these texts, they were identified as the themes. The quantity of comments about each theme was considered as the frequency,which is an indicator of the traces being moreor less relevant. After being identified, the themes were grouped into thematic categories. The criteria to form the categories were semantics, it means that the themes that had the same meanings and were related to the same concept were reunited in the same category. However, it is important to highlight that, in this moment of data analysis and formation of thematic categories, although the categories have been formed from private to general, they were also considered as a guide in this process, the categories originated in theoretical reference, mainly the relatives to organizational commitment constructs and job satisfaction, present in this study and in turnover theory, or then based in identified words in registry units.

the questionnaire consists of demographic data of responders, fundamentally important to gain knowledge of population and identification of correlations with the constructs worked in the research for seeking significant information obtainable in different groups which exist inside organization. Researched data in demography were age, gender, marital status, schooling, time of service in institution, actuation area according to the structure of the researched organization (technique areas: design, engineering, quality or support) and senior level in occupied function.
