---
source_path: emerald_rege_rege603931_84_101.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e58092065d21ddf0c25ddee3da320660bc05d5d9
title: emerald_rege_rege603931_84_101
---
# REGE 25,1

84

Received 11 February 2016 Revised 30 June 2016 17 July 2016 Accepted 17 October 2016

Organizational commitment, job satisfaction and their possible influences on intent to turnover Carolina Machado Dias Ramalho Luz Faculdade Boa Viagem – DEVRY, Recife, Brazil, and Sílvio Luiz de Paula and Lúcia Maria Barbosa de Oliveira Universidade Federal de Pernambuco – UFPE, Recife, Brazil

Abstract Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to investigate the extent to which the organizational commitment and job satisfaction influence intent to turnover. Design/methodology/approach – Following a quantitative approach regarding methodological aspects of this research, a case study was carried out in a company of information technology and communication located in Porto Digital, in the Northeast of Brazil. A data collection technique with 172 forms, a self-administered form with 18 closed questions with a Likert-type scale and an open questionnaire were used. In this analysis, Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) software was used as the technique; besides the descriptive statistics, a correlation was made between dependent variables (intention of rotation) and independent variables (affective, normative, instrumental and work satisfaction). The level of organizational commitment in its three dimensions (affective, normative and instrumental), the job satisfaction in its five dimensions (satisfaction with nature of the task, with leadership, with colleagues, with salary and promotions) and the level of intent to turnover from the respondents were investigated. Findings – The results suggest that affective and normative commitments and satisfaction with pay, satisfaction with promotions and satisfaction with the nature of the work are correlated with the intention of negative turnover significantly. Among the demographic factors, only the age showed a negative correlation with intent to turnover. By performing multiple regression analysis, we identified that the variables that most impacted the turnover intention are affective commitment, satisfaction with salary and normative commitment. The qualitative portion of this study was accomplished through a content analysis of the open question of the form. Finally, one of the main considerations is the findings that revealed variables other than those adopted in the study, which influence the permanence of the respondents. Research limitations/implications – Among the limitations of the research a single case study is highlighted that replicates the experience in other ICT companies to verify if the results found are similar in other organizations and in other segments. The findings direct the construction and validation of new scales, the creation of qualitative protocols to identify the variables that influence the retention of a specific group of individuals to serve as a guide for the elaboration of a questionnaire, as well as creation of surveys of longitudinal nature to correlate the data of intention of rotation with the effective turnover. Practical implications – Based on the results, organizations can reduce voluntary evasion by adjusting actions, policies and practices, directing those responsible for People Management to attract and retain good employees. It should be emphasized that voluntary turnover should be treated as one of the management indicators of greater relevance by organizations, representing a thermometer of all human capital management. Social implications – The monitoring of employment and unemployment levels is part of the public policy agenda for generating employment and income in Brazil. For organizations, employee turnover can and should be managed and monitored so that appropriate levels are found and their consequences are minimized through effective solutions. The results are important both for technology-based organizations and for all stakeholders interested in the subject as the public power.

Revista de Gestão Vol. 25 No. 1, 2018 pp. 84-101 Emerald Publishing Limited 2177-8736 DOI 10.1108/REGE-12-2017-008

© Carolina Machado Dias Ramalho Luz, Sílvio Luiz de Paula and Lúcia Maria Barbosa de Oliveira. Published in Revista de Gestão. Published by Emerald Publishing Limited. This article is published under the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY 4.0) licence. Anyone may reproduce, distribute, translate and create derivative works of this article (for both commercial and non-commercial purposes), subject to full attribution to the original publication and authors. The full terms of this licence may be seen at http://creativecommons.org/licences/by/4.0/legalcode

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:114)(cid:101)(cid:103)(cid:101)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:47)(cid:49)(cid:47)(cid:56)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:50)(cid:56)(cid:57)(cid:55)(cid:52)(cid:49)(cid:47)(cid:114)(cid:101)(cid:103)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:49)(cid:50)(cid:45)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:49)(cid:55)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:56)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)

Originality/value – Although in the international literature turnover is a topic of study for many years, in the Brazilian context, there is a shortage of research on the subject, specifically in the sector of advanced technology where there is a great lack of skilled labor, a fierce competition and where to keep employees standard high becomes a survival factor. This study may contribute to the exploration in the local literature, as it will help locate the academy on the Brazilian reality and open the doors to new research works on turnover and its possible correlations with other variables besides organizational commitment and job satisfaction. Keywords Organizational commitment, Turnover, Job satisfaction Paper type Research paper

- 1. Introduction Turnover is a critical factor to the organizations, to individuals and to the society and presents both positive and negative aspects (Phillips and Connell, 2003). Although there are studies of turnover in the last 30 years in behavioral area and human resources with theories about voluntary resignation (Tett and Meyer, 1993; Mobley, 1992; Lee and Mowday, 1987; Dalton and Todor, 1979; Burguess et al., 2001), such as in labor economics area (Du et al., 2006; O’Higgins, 2012), in Brazil they were identified as efforts with works of Pinto and Gonzaga (2014) and Cardoso and Lage (2007). However, the turnover in Brazil still has gaps in academic research agenda (Campos and Malik, 2008; Menezes and Bastos, 2010). Market data, as studied by Corseuil et al. (2013), who analyzed the Brazilian turnover from 1996 to 2010, corroborated with the importance of the theme and its maintenance in research agenda.

There are various reasons why an employee leaves the organization or has the intention to leave (Gaylard et al., 2005; Agapito et al., 2015). After a literature collection, two constructs were chosen usually mentioned as influencers of this decision or intention to leave the organization, which were “job satisfaction” and “organizational commitment” (Tett and Meyer, 1993; Gaertner, 1999; Mobley, 1992; Griffeth et al., 2000; Du et al., 2006; Lee and Mowday, 1987; Yucel, 2012; Baotham et al., 2010).

Retaining professionals is a permanent challenge in an organizational environment that also remains as the most persistent challenge faced, especially by the information technology (IT) sector, with its particularities and shortage of labor in the Brazilian scenario (Joseph et al., 2007; Fernandes et al., 2013). The comprehension of the factors which influence the voluntary exit or the intention of doing it might be quite valid to the enterprises which can direct their strategies and actions of human resources, aiming to keep the good professionals (Lee and Maurer, 1997; Medeiros et al., 2003; Stewart et al., 2011).

Located in Brazilian Northeast, T.E.C, real institute with fictional name, was chosen as the locus of this research. It is one of a few institutes of research and development of Technology of Information and Communication (TIC) that exists in Brazil. Established in the 1990s by professionals of area, T.E.C is a civil, non-profit, private association which creates products, processes, services and enterprises using TIC. Based on the argument exposed here, the following question of research was formulated:

RQ1. How far the organizational commitment and job satisfaction influence the intention to turnover, according to the perception of employees of T.E.C. Institute?

- 2. Theoretical reference 2.1 Turnover The noun turnover is attributed to inflow and outflow of employees of an enterprise and it is considered one of the most important organizational phenomena, because it obligates the managers to be capacitated to analyze, comprehend and manage its consequences. Phillips and Connell (2003) defined the turnover of the establishment plan of an enterprise as the opposite of its retention. It is expressed through a percental relation among admission

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:114)(cid:101)(cid:103)(cid:101)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:47)(cid:49)(cid:47)(cid:56)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:50)(cid:56)(cid:57)(cid:55)(cid:52)(cid:49)(cid:47)(cid:114)(cid:101)(cid:103)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:49)(cid:50)(cid:45)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:49)(cid:55)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:56)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)
