---
source_path: emerald_rege_rege603931_84_101.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 55be71e999f83d150f4634b27266fb782c8395a8
title: emerald_rege_rege603931_84_101
---
# REGE 25,1

88

Soldi and Zanelli (2006) identified six approaches to the studies of commitment: affective, instrumental, normative, sociological, behavioral and affiliative; however, the unidimensional approach of commitment strongly influenced the study of the construct until the 1980s and originated the most widespread organizational commitment measure, the Organizational Commitment Questioner. Although it is recognized as the amplitude of the research works in commitment area and the critics to the model (Medeiros and Enders, 1998; Rodrigues and Bastos, 2010), due its actuality in this study, it was used as the tridimensional model developed by Meyer and Allen (1991) and contributors. In the review of Meyer and Allen (1991), the authors affirm that, although there are some commitment concepts, there appear to have at least three common dimensions: attachment or affection to the organization (affective commitment), perception of loss on leaving the organization (instrumental commitment) and the obligation to remain in it (normative commitment).

Affective commitment, the approach which prevails in the literature of organizational commitment, is the one which defines the concept as an affective or emotional bond to the organization (Jaros et al., 1993). Committedindividuals identify themselves as involved andlike to be part of the organization (Allen and Meyer, 1990). The normative commitment, though, is conceptualized by Bastos (1993) with the conjunct of normative pressures internalized by the individual behavior according to objectives and interests of the organization.

The instrumental commitment is a type of psychological appeal which reflects the degree in which the individual feels himself stuck in a place because of the high costs associated to abandon it (Bastos et al., 1997). Oliveira et al. (2007) considered this dimension as an approach that is a more intrinsical motivation to individuals; it means that they remain in the organization with the only objective of satisfying their necessities. Medeiros et al. (2002) commented that several studies point empirical evidence that relate the instrumental commitment to indicators related to investments made by the individuals at the workplace and also with alternative jobs. In the next section, another construct will be approached which composes this study: job satisfaction.

2.3 Job satisfaction As per Spector (1997), job satisfaction is how the employee feels about the enterprise or about determined aspects of it. It is how much the person likes (satisfaction) or dislikes (dissatisfaction) his work (Siqueira and Gomide Junior, 2004). The expression job satisfaction represents how much an individual experiences pleasures in the organizational context. It is the reflection of the convergence between individual personal interests with what is given by the organization (Baotham et al., 2010).

Although past years suffered mutations, conception of job satisfaction was understood as a motivational aspect or as an attitude, which has been pointed as a concept that involves effectiveness contemporarily, the job satisfaction did not suffer great modifications in its constitutive dimensions. The dimensions that were kept along the time were five: satisfaction with the payment, with job colleagues, with the boss, with the promotions and with work itself (Siqueira, 2008), shown in Table II.

These factors are the most frequent sources of job satisfaction. It is important to highlight that the expression job satisfaction represents how much the individual experiences pleasures in an organizational context. Then, each one of these factors represents the source of these experiences. In this study, the multidimensional vision was adopted, in order to relate each aspect of the construct with turnover intention, as well as its intensity.

As per Almeida and Paula (2015), creating measuring instruments is not a simple activity, because it is related to the complex sum of different elements. The global unique classification and the sum of the points formed by different aspects of the work are the two most used approaches; perhaps, these are the ones that follow job satisfaction throughout a unidimensional perspective with a broader attitude which do not consider its specific

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:114)(cid:101)(cid:103)(cid:101)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:47)(cid:49)(cid:47)(cid:56)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:50)(cid:56)(cid:57)(cid:55)(cid:52)(cid:49)(cid:47)(cid:114)(cid:101)(cid:103)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:49)(cid:50)(cid:45)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:49)(cid:55)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:56)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)
