data/clean/employee_net_promoter_score_enps_as_a_single_item_measure_of_employee_work_satis__chunk0004.md, before:

# Piotr Sedlak

Who created the NPS and why it became so popular?

The NPS was created by Frederick F. Reichheld2 who published in Harvard Busi- ness Review the text with convincing title: The One Number You Need to Grow3. Reichheld was ensuring his readers that: “you don’t need expensive surveys and complex statistical models. You only have to ask your customers one question”4. Having a good professional reputation5 and being sure of his research was prob- ably one reason of Reichheld’s success. The other reasons may be the simplicity of the NPS, the easiness in understanding for managers and the focus on business growth. The item created by Reichheld was even called “the ultimate question”6. There is much research confirming the success of the NPS in the business world. For example, in one piece of research, 71% of the large companies in the sample were using the NPS7 or another research showing that the majority of Customers Experience Directors use the NPS as one of the key indicators8.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/employee_net_promoter_score_enps_as_a_single_item_measure_of_employee_work_satis__chunk0004.md, after:

---
source_path: employee_net_promoter_score_enps_as_a_single_item_measure_of_employee_work_satis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 756aae80953d27499419947b192a3f7c15f203df
title: employee_net_promoter_score_enps_as_a_single_item_measure_of_employee_work_satis
---
# Introduction

Living in the modern world means a high probability of being invited to a survey and facing the question: “How likely is it that you would recommend X company to a friend or colleague?”. Those respondents taking part in an employee satisfac- tion survey may have heard the version “[…] would you recommend work at our company to a friend or colleague […]”. This single question concerning the will- ingness to recommend is a base for the Net Promoter Score1 indicator. It became so popular in customer surveys that it could claim the title of The Holy Grail of so- cial research. Does it deserve it?

This text will focus on NPS methodology and its possibility to be adapted in an employee satisfaction survey. An important task is checking what the “would recommend” question really measures. A fair part will be devoted to deliberation about the development of the NPS and showing how the “would recommend” ques- tion works in practice of the employee satisfaction surveys.

1

Net Promoter®, Net Promoter System®, Net Promoter Score® and NPS® are registered trade- marks of Bain & Company, Inc., Fred Reichheld and Satmetrix Systems, Inc.

348
