# Equality Theory

as an underlying distributive basis. For example, delimiting ratios between the highest and lowest paid layers of a workforce is an increasingly common practice (O’Toole 2009). Whole foods limits executive pay to no more than 19 times the average hourly wage and every employee qualiﬁes for stock options (Grifﬁn and Moorhead 2010, p. 489). Ofﬁce furniture manufacturer Herman Miller holds CEO salary to 20 times an average worker’s pay (Rehfeld 1994). By placing limits on pay disparity, this practice imparts a message not of leveling in an absolute sense, but of inclusion and balanced treatment (Hornstein 2002; Pfeffer and Veiga 1999; Yaeger et al. 2006).

The concept of an all-salaried workforce is also an increasingly common practice. Here there is an equiva- lence not of amount but symbolically of the mode of remuneration, in contrast to traditional systems that labeled and remunerated hourly workers as ‘‘direct labor’’ and managers as ‘‘salaried’’ (Pfeffer and Veiga 1999). General motors claimed the move to an all-salaried workforce at several locations signaled an increased respect for the contribution of all employees (Warren 1986). Also, proﬁt sharing and gainsharing are potential examples of exis- tential distributive equality in that they bind managers and workers to a ‘‘shared fate’’ (Florkowski and Schuster 1992; Pfeffer 1998; Pfeffer and Langton 1993; Yaeger et al. 2006). ‘‘Hourly workers share in the proﬁts when the company does well, and management takes cuts in pay along with the workers when sales slowdown’’ (Rehfeld 1994). In a company studied by Martin (1992), employees cited the existence of an employee stock ownership plan, as well as a proﬁt-sharing plan—open to all workers—as evidence of equality.

As a critical counter to the positive tone above, it is necessary to note that Ben and Jerry’s Ice Cream, a long- term follower of minimizing pay disparity between exec- utives and lowest paid workers, eventually deemphasized the practice as they encountered difﬁculty in attracting and retaining chief ﬁnancial ofﬁcers and CEOs (Gerhart and Rynes 2003, p. 103). However, it may be that societal attitudes are now more in alignment; for instance, ﬁndings from a nationally representative American sample show preference for only a moderate degree of societal wealth inequality, regardless of respondents’ actual wealth—i.e., even without Rawls’ ‘‘veil of ignorance’’ in place (Norton and Ariely 2011).

Beyond what is currently practiced in organizations, existential-based equality may prove a fruitful argument in challenging pay disparities such as the staggering differ- entials between top executives and other employees— possibly more fruitful than equity-based reasoning alone. From an equity perspective, many have questioned the causal relation between CEO decisions and ﬁrm perfor- mance, and the propriety of using this ambiguous relation