# Concluding Remarks

Given the import of distributive justice for organizations, it is surprising how little attention has been paid to equality- based distribution, particularly in contrast to the vast equity-based literature. We have offered a radically dif- ferent, and more fully speciﬁed, conceptualization of dis- tributive equality. This conceptualization moves beyond the existing literature’s tendency to focus on small groups and remunerative outcomes, ultimately coming to view distributive equality within organizations at a more sys- temic level. The paper has not only viewed equality at a different but also at a much deeper level—by considering existential equality as a valid (and valuable) construal of inputs. We have hopefully underscored the potentially profound role that distributive equality holds in both con- temporary organizations, and presumptively in the psyches (the value systems) of contemporary organizational members.

Indeed, we would contend there should perhaps be an ‘‘equality theory’’ competing with equity for name recog- nition in managerial and scholarly discourse. That is, the phrase ‘‘equity theory’’ is well-ensconced in the vocabulary of organizational scholars. And yet, as does equity theory, the model of distributive equality surely meets the basic requirements of a theoretical construct. In general, it is important to construct theories that objectify more deeply rooted assumptions, and to build models that outline pre- sumed cause and effect relations arising from common