---
source_path: equality_theory_as_a_counterbalance_to_equity_theory.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5d742ede31d959f15fdef65b9327eebc52a32613
title: equality_theory_as_a_counterbalance_to_equity_theory
---
# 137

This conceptualization of status leveling comports with Fraser’s (Fraser 1997, 2001, 2008; Fraser and Honneth 2003) well-developed body of work on the philosophy of social justice, in which she utilizes a status-equality model as a framework for conceptualizing social justice. Fraser notes that theories of distributive justice typically focus upon the socio-economic realm, and as such are interpreted primarily in terms of the distribution (or redistribution) of material goods or resources. But Fraser contends that alongside these more standard redistributive claims, there also lay very important and equally valid claims for ‘‘rec- ognition’’ that must be considered in any serious attempt to achieve justice. By ‘‘recognition’’ Fraser refers to the cul- tural or symbolic dimension of inequality, namely: ‘‘social patterns of representation, interpretation, and communica- tion’’ (1997, p. 15). Patterns of ‘‘misrecognition’’ in these domains interfere with appreciation of ‘‘our common humanity,’’ with ability to come together and interact ‘‘as social peers’’ (Fraser 2001, p. 29). Indeed Fraser avers that in practice economic injustice and cultural injustice are inseparable: ‘‘Even the most material economic institu- tions have a constitutive, irreducible cultural dimension; they are shot through with signiﬁcations and norms…. Economic injustice and cultural injustice are usually inte- rimbricated so as to reinforce each other dialectically’’ (1997, p. 15).

The so-called status leveling practices employed by organizations clearly comport with Fraser’s model of jus- tice in that they often interpenetrate both material and just one symbolic spheres of organizational example, organizational status leveling practices include such things as the elimination of differential washrooms for differential classes of employees. No doubt, a washroom is a material resource, but it is also symbolic. That is, seg- regated washrooms are not merely separate objects but are also unequal in the sense of recognition. Compare the experience of a clean and well-appointed executive wash- room with a dirty, smelly restroom ‘‘reserved’’ exclusively for ‘‘workers.’’ These examples the very apportionment of esteem that Fraser refers to as ‘‘recognition.’’ Below con- sider a number of the speciﬁc spheres within which orga- nizations’ practice of status leveling unfolds.
