data/clean/equality_theory_as_a_counterbalance_to_equity_theory__chunk0043.md, before:

# D. A. Morand, K. K. Merriman

Or, consider health care. If different classes of employees this can affect one’s life receive differential coverage, chances (for example if a top executive is able to receive a bone marrow transplant but not a worker). Such is poten- tially deeply violative of norms of existential equality. Alternately, consider the concept of a living wage. In venturing into this arena, organizations are clearly treating equality as an ethical precept. Accordingly, we must con- tinue to reﬂect on the meaning of equality; we must con- sider equality in a simple and perhaps material sense, but also reﬂect on its deeper ethical characteristics.

Finally, as profound a concept as equality is, organiza- tional competitiveness is also a profound concept. Jacques (1999) expressed it well when he noted that managerialist and criticalist modes of thought must both be recognized, and must both work in concert to inform one another. imperatives, and ethical Organizations have ﬁnancial left and right imperatives. Perhaps analogous to our brains—we cannot help but that these cohabit one and the same body.

Acknowledgments The authors thank the three editors of this special issue and the anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments on the manuscript.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/equality_theory_as_a_counterbalance_to_equity_theory__chunk0043.md, after:

---
source_path: equality_theory_as_a_counterbalance_to_equity_theory.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: fd20594a516381cde412f24531c78b9f3875da6d
title: equality_theory_as_a_counterbalance_to_equity_theory
---
# 142

While the notion of existential equality represents a fundamental belief set within our culture, we remain heavily invested in meritocratic ideals. The notion that differential degrees of contribution rightly result in differ- ent outcomes is not going away, nor should it. Meritocracy is a major driver of capitalism; rewards for individual achievement are a profound human motivator, and ulti- mately an essential element of market driven free enter- prise systems.

Nonetheless, all social systems must strive to achieve a balance between agency, an individualistic self-serving orientation, and communion, an orientation in which the self is fused with others in a larger context (Rousseau and Arthur 1999). Balkan (1966) so argues, suggesting that social order, justice, and cohesion prevail when there is a balance between agency and communion. Keeley (1988) similarly notes that equity and equality are competing goals, the task of managers being to balance these. Mitchell and Scott (1990) note the creation of a sense of community to be an increasingly important problem area for modern organizations.

And yet, equality and equity often tend to be viewed as mutually exclusive. That is, equality rules are often pre- sumed to foreclose upon our ability to draw upon equity as a basis for distribution, and vice versa. But perhaps if we can come to view justice more systemically (when viewed in an organizational or societal context as a whole; e.g., Ambrose and Schminke 2009; Sheppard et al. 1992), then we can see how equity and equality function in tandem— are potentially harnessed synergistically. This point to the value of knowing how, and when, equity and equality may be complementary. Indeed the distributive practices pre- sented herein suggest that there exist a number of organi- zational spheres perfectly suitable for experimentation with forms of distributive equality, and suitable within the context of organizations functioning as goal driven, com- petitive enterprises.

Regarding the notion of balancing equality with equal- ity, this deals with the idea that equality is ultimately a deeply qualitative idea, and that it’s full pursuit ultimately entails an ongoing praxis. To this end, we need to contin- ually scrutinize existing forms and possibilities for dis- tributive equality in organizations, and compare these with the ideal of existential equality.

For example, consider organizations’ practice of having no reserved parking spaces. How much does this resonate with the concept of existential dignity? It does, but contrast this to an equalization of restroom facilities. Anyone who has entered an executive versus a workers’ lavatory gets a sense of striking qualitative differences—the former being very clean, very well appointed, perhaps with marble ﬂoors, and so forth. Here perhaps we touch a somewhat deeper nerve relative to the emotional meaning of equality.

123
