# D. A. Morand, K. K. Merriman

the constraints of complex organizations? Equality, when we speak of the equal worth of persons, has a deeply moral dimension to it. Kant speaks of equality in terms of human worth and dignity (1785/1998), Locke as the right to self- ownership and freedom (1689/2010). The quest for equal- ity, in the sense of moral worth and recognition, comprises thus an ongoing praxis. For example, Fraser recognition not only implies removing forms of status-linked ‘‘misrecog- nition’’ but also the creation of social and institutional practices enabling ongoing recognition, providing actors ‘‘parity of participation’’ in the social sphere. In short, equality in its deepest philosophical sense really has to do with freedom; achieving ‘‘recognition’’ in Fraser’s sense is an ongoing human striving.

Cloke and Goldsmith’s description of their (2002) work on organizational democracy (based on decades of work as consultants to organizations) provides one sense of how such processes might unfold in a dynamic sense, beyond the implementation of leveling practices described above. Indeed, their work would appear to seamlessly match up with Fraser’s conceptualization of how ongoing ‘‘recogni- tion’’ (‘‘how to participate as peer in social interaction’’) might unfold within an organizational context (and we would doubt Cloke and Goldsmith have read Fraser). Cloke and Goldsmith’s advocacy of ‘‘organizational democracy’’ emphasizes the import of employees’ active and ongoing participation and consent relative to the choice of values, including how said values are implemented and enacted (and we here assume that equality is one such core value). In general, Cloke and Goldsmith center on the import of ongoing organizational dialog among members. Couched in terms of distributive justice, it is not simply what is distributed, or how equally it is distributed, but that these justice processes also involve the active engagement of members’ relative to their sense of recognition and equal- ity, and relative to how said values are institutionalized and enshrined in ongoing organizational practice.

Finally, we return to themes presented in the opening pages, regarding the broad import of equality in contem- porary society. It is increasingly common for businesses to recognize that they have a responsibility to engage in the internalization of the environmental and social costs of doing business (e.g. Senge et al. 2010). The idea that corporations may have a responsibility for providing health care to all employees, of providing a living wage, or of considering the justice concerns of indirect workers who form part of one’s global supply chain (i.e., the recent example of Apple Computer)—these all touch upon dis- tributive issues.

And as noted, the world is currently experiencing a global socio-economic, socio-cultural crisis of unprece- dented proportion—one that has as its roots a concern with accepted forms of inequality. The Occupy Wall Street