# 141

workplace practices. It is always vital to examine the root the tacit knowledge (Polyani 2009/1966) assumptions, underlying our ‘‘theories in use’’ (Argryis 1993). Of course, whether the phraseology ‘‘equality theory’’ ever escapes the lips of scholars, or others, is ultimately an empirical question. Our primary point here is simply that distributive equality is both much more common, and carries greater portent in terms of its potential ramiﬁcations, than is at present recognized.

Indeed, when pointing out deﬁcits or gaps in the liter- ature scholarship typically elides attributing causality to the gap by simply pointing out that certain perspectives or directions have been ‘‘neglected’’ or ‘‘overlooked’’. Such may be the case here; however, we might suggest an alternate, a psychodynamic view. Consider that sometimes blind spots are not random, but rather are motivated. Such was the case with Freud’s ‘‘discovery’’ of the unconscious, and the formidable role of the sexual drive. Researchers prior to Freud did not fail to see this because they ‘‘over- looked’’ it, but rather were blinded to it due to the taboos surrounding issues of sex, and the idea of unconscious motivation.

In the same way, has the import of equality theory been ‘‘overlooked’’ for a reason? If we follow the logic out— from distribution of ofﬁces, of upward mobility, indeed especially regarding forms of remuneration—this takes one in a Marxian direction. The idea that perhaps all workers deserve a more equal share of the fruits of their labor is, particularly in US culture, highly charged. Moreover, Marxian approaches to redistribution, particularly in their more superﬁcial form, tend to focus on material distribu- tion—of ‘‘primary goods.’’ But, as noted herein, if one is to take notion of equality of inputs based on existential dig- nity seriously, this takes us beyond a material realm. For the purpose of material redistribution is not simply to enjoy equal share of goods, but to achieve a society where everyone is not only materially well off but symbolically an esteemed and ‘‘recognized’’ participant. Thus, while the managerial literature has perhaps been able to tolerate mention of ‘‘symbolic egalitarianism’’ from an organiza- tional culture perspective, of every member getting equal access to parking space, and so on, somehow framing the very same set of phenomena within the theoretical frame- work of distributive equality—may be a more ‘‘disturbing’’ idea. Perhaps distributive equality is a proverbial ‘‘elephant in the room.’’

Regarding the ongoing application of distributive equality, probably the two most essential questions—for researchers and practitioners alike—regards how to com- port equality with equity, and how to comport equality with equality. The meaning of this second expression (equality with equality) will be explained in short order, but ﬁrst, to the comporting of equity with equality.

123