---
source_path: equality_theory_as_a_counterbalance_to_equity_theory.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 75e0ea0da050308da3cfc080121dce989199d084
title: equality_theory_as_a_counterbalance_to_equity_theory
---
# D. A. Morand, K. K. Merriman

vast distributive inequalities within organizations (CEO pay), and within society generally (the 1 vs. 99 %). Such inequalities have increasingly become issues of great concern in the global culture, and have particularly esca- lated within the United States in terms of actual disparities and disquiet (Hacker and Pierson 2010). Some would argue that we have as a civilization—indeed as a planet—reached a tipping point, such that the primary task before us is not one of production, but rather of distribution (Eisenstein 2011; Maynard and Mehrtens 1996; Rifkin 2004, 2009; Zuboff and Maxim 2004). In this context, a close re- examination of the meaning of distributive equality is of value.

Even further, we appear to have arrived at an era in world history where many other ‘‘time honored’’ forms of inequality are being tested. Autocratic leadership is giving way to nascent democratic movements around the globe. Such occurred over a decade ago across Eastern Europe and currently appears to be unfolding within the Middle East, and perhaps spreading or being augmented in coun- tries such as Russia, China, and India in the future. As political systems become more democratic, organizations within these systems will need to as well. The call for organizational democracy is in fact a growing element of both research and practice, justiﬁed by many as an eco- nomic business imperative for today’s knowledge-based companies (see Johnson 2006 for an overview) and as an ethical duty for companies to share power in the employ- ment relationship by social justice standards (Van Buren and Greenwood 2008). Indeed justice norms can serve to regulate exchange relationships that are not otherwise controlled by hierarchies, market constraints, or power processes (Eckhoff 1974; Williamson 1975). Yet while research on organizational democracy focuses on worker participation and governance issues, distributive equality clearly comprises a fundamental building block for democracy theorists to consider. Here again, the idea, and re-examination, of distributive equality offers us value.
