---
source_path: eur_research_information_portal.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1a8ae4f01697d86326619fc58235114327f5594e
title: eur_research_information_portal
---
# Group & Organization Management 47(4)

workgroup members, and elicit member participation in decision-making processes as core to inclusive leadership. Their qualitative study of leaders’ own descriptions of inclusive leadership behaviors surfaced these themes, which also overlap with those described by Shore and Chung (pp. 723–754), who argue that leaders impact follower inclusion by purposefully enabling psychological safety, psychological empowerment, and workgroup identiﬁ- cation. Their focus on these three mechanisms aligns nicely with the expanded conceptualization of the psychological states underlying inclusion: (a) psy- chological safety is necessary for the expression of one’s unique perspectives and identities; (b) psychological empowerment enables individuals to apply their unique strengths and competencies to perform their work; and (c) workgroup identiﬁcation is foundational for belonging, albeit a cross-level mechanism. The question is how leaders enable these experiences, particu- larly within the context of diversity in which followers’ access to these experiences vary as a function of the status associated with their social identities (Chrobot-Mason et al., 2013).

We believe that a common misconception may be that inclusive leadership involves leader neutrality, or efforts to be fair by treating all followers the same; however, a generic approach fails to recognize how workgroup members’ social positions impact their experiences and can therefore per- petuate exclusion for some. This is because neutrality allows the status quo that is deﬁned by dominant narratives and assumptions to prevail. Dominant groups represent the norm around which operant assumptions are built; they also have access to greater social power, opportunities, and choices, and shape the institutional structures and cultural practices that reinforce identity-based role expectations (McCluney & Rabelo, 2019; Mohr & Purdie-Vaughns, 2015). Those who contradict them are sanctioned while those who con- form are more readily accepted. By being neutral, leaders perpetuate unequal societal structures that demand assimilation among those with non-dominant identities.

Thus, leader efforts to encourage followers to bring their authentic selves to work and contribute to decision-making (Avolio & Gardner, 2005; Leroy, Anseel, Gardner & Sels, 2015; Mor Barak & Daya, 2014), despite in principle being the right thing to do, can in effect perpetuate existing inequalities. Even if others acknowledge visible social identity differences (high uniqueness), when those social categorizations trigger superﬁcial stereotype-based as- sumptions that get in the way of more personalized connections (low be- longing) and having one’s perspectives and competencies validated (low competence and autonomy), experiences of inclusion are much less likely. In contrast, in organizational environments in which status characteristics are invalidated and people are seen in ways that are consistent with how they see
