---
source_path: eur_research_information_portal.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 17033d18059cdbf06ab4d3855273ccf2ce8b6bc6
title: eur_research_information_portal
---
# Group & Organization Management 47(4)

Successfully cultivating a multicultural superordinate identity with which all group members can identify is complicated by the fact that neutrality on the part of leaders allows power and privilege dynamics (which are silencing for minoritized individuals) to be maintained. Instead, inclusive leaders actively interrupt these dynamics by creating opportunities: (a) to question and unpack dominant narratives so that people (including themselves) are able to un- derstand the origins of these narratives and (b) for people to share coun- is normal or best ternarratives that challenge assumptions about what (Routenberg, Thompson & Waterberg, 2013). Leaders who create “holding environments” in which counternarratives can be voiced and explored provide the opportunity for truly multicultural meanings to emerge (Petriglieri & Petriglieri, 2010). By presenting and inviting counternarratives, leaders offer safety and validation forgroup members whose experiences are reﬂected more in the counternarratives than dominant, taken for granted narratives. Effective leader strategies include asking someone who voices a dominant narrative where they may have learned this perspective, inviting observations and reactions from others, then challenging group members to offer alternative perspectives and possible explanations for why people might hold them (Routenberg, et al., 2013). Leaders can also push group members to reﬂect on the patterns evident in what has or has not been discussed, and in so doing make it normative for group members to search for untold stories and question traditionally unquestioned assumptions about how things are done, by whom, and why. By not just being willing to invite divergent perspectives but actively making it their priority to create space for group members to collectively listen and reﬂect, leaders create the safety needed for diverse voices to shape the group’s shared understanding of themselves.

Investing in Developing Cross-Boundary Connections and Understanding. Among the earlier studies on workgroup diversity to demonstrate the value of investing indevelopingsocialconnectionsacrossdiverseworkgroupmemberswerethose by Harrison and colleagues (Harrison, Price & Bell, 1998; Harrison, Price, Gavin & Florey, 2002), who showed that the negative relationship between surface-level, demographic diversity, and outcomes such as group cohesion and performance weakens over time. Social integration is essential for helping workgroups bridge the diversity among them without negating the distinc- tiveness of individual workgroup members and the value inherent therein (Brewer, 1991). As strong relational ties are cultivated across difference, group members develop more complex and personalizedcategorizations of coworkers that weaken potential faultlines (Lau & Murnighan, 1998) and make them more attuned to, and accepting of, one another’s distinctiveness (Larkey, 1996). Importantly, in workgroups characterized by weak social ties, people are less
