---
source_path: eur_research_information_portal.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 84e042df9743468ce31ea7722724fd85b2da33f3
title: eur_research_information_portal
---
# Editorial

themselves and are not assumed to be less competent just because of their surface-level characteristics (i.e., inclusive climates, Nishii, 2013), members of historically marginalized groups are more likely to experience high au- tonomy as well as high belonging and competence—in other words, inclusion. What this means for inclusive leadership is that leaders must take the extra step of interrupting these cycles by challenging assumptions about what is normal and good and therefore who is considered role congruent and more competent, questioning role expectations that are otherwise accepted at face value and unlearning overly simplistic stereotypes about members of his- torically marginalized identity groups about whom much less tends to be understood. Leaders delegitimize arbitrary status differences (Ridgeway, 1991) and in so doing facilitate experiences of inclusion for individuals with stigmatized identities (cf. Roberson & Perry, pp. 755–778) by de- liberately doing the following: (1) investing in developing high-quality, personalized relationships with followers; (2) counteracting simplistic ster- eotypes; and (3) authorizing voice. We discuss each in turn.

Investing in Developing High-Quality, Trusting Relationships with Followers. When a leader develops a high-quality exchange relationship (LMX) with a follower that is characterized by mutual respect and trust, they signal their acceptance of, and confer high status to, the employee (Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995; Liden, Erdogan, Wayne & Sparrowe, 2006). As a valued insider, they experience greater empowerment and psychological safety to voice their perspectives and engage in interpersonal risk-taking (Gomez & Rosen, 2001; Schyns, Paul, Mohr & Blank, 2005). Their trust-based relationship also affords followers greater discretion in the way they do their jobs (McClane, 1991). Furthermore, employees in high LMX relationships with their leader are more likely to believe that they are supported to apply their unique strengths and talents in the way they approach their work (Dienesch & Liden, 1986); as a result, they have the opportunity to enjoy higher levels of engagement and well-being and perform at their personal best (Keenan & Mostert, 2013; van Woerkom, Bakker & Nishii, 2016; Wood et al., 2011). Finally, since workgroup leaders are seen as important representatives of the workgroup, being treated as an insider by the leader contributes to an individual’s identiﬁcation with the workgroup (Tyler & Lind, 1992). Therefore, an important component of inclusive leadership is to invest in developing high-quality, one-on-one re- lationships with workgroup members (Roberson & Perry, pp. 755–778).

Particularly important in the context of diverse groups is the fact that when a leader develops a high-quality, trust-based relationship with a follower, they provide “safe passages” (DiTomaso & Hooijberg, 1996, p. 170) for that employee by triggering workgroup members to comply with leader-
