---
source_path: eur_research_information_portal.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 37eaa92972b2a6d4a14519f20c942ab5cacbaae9
title: eur_research_information_portal
---
# Editorial

assumptions about workgroup members’ competencies (Cuddy, Wilmuth & Carney, 2012; Eagly & Karau, 2002) and interrupting stereotype-conﬁrming cognitive biases (Fiske & Neuberg, 1990) such as conﬁrmation (Nickerson, 1998), likability (Heilman, 2001; Heilman & Wallen, 2010), and attribution (Hewstone, 1990; Pettigrew, 1979) biases.

A critical function of inclusive leaders is thus to actively counteract stereotype-based status dynamics that have a silencing effect on minoritized workgroup members who would otherwise face pressures to conform to the dominant majority. Members of historically marginalized groups are more likely to voice their opinions and be taken seriously when they have ascribed status—or are perceived to have expertise (Thomas-Hunt, Ogden & Neale, 2003). By publicly acknowledging the expertise of minority members, leaders help reduce perceived risks to voicing. Research that shows that disagreement expressed by two members is less likely to be discounted than that expressed by a single member (Larson, Sargis & Bauman, 2004; Mugny & Papastamou, 1980) provides further support of the important role leaders play in promoting psychological safety and voice among minority members by validating their dissenting perspectives.

Authorizing voice. Workgroup members who experience the psychological safety to voice their perspectives and feel that the perspectives that they voice are valued, inform decision-making, and shape workgroup norms are more likely to experience inclusion (Pelled et al., 1999). Leaders are in a position to authorize voice (i.e., who has voice), and the way they respond inﬂuences the perceived legitimacy of voiced perspectives (Detert & Burris, 2007). Among the earliest operationalizations of inclusive leadership, offered by Nembhard and Edmondson (2006), was centered around the importance of providing voice; they deﬁned inclusive leadership as leader actions to empower em- ployees by including them in decision-making, regardless of background.

However, leaders must understand that behaviors that promote psycho- logical safety for members of the dominant majority may be insufﬁcient for individuals who experience barriers to psychological safety and voice based on the hypervisibility and/or invisibility of their stigmatized identity(s). Members of majority groups beneﬁt from positive stereotypes of competence (Cuddy et al., 2007, 2009bib_Cuddy_et_al_2009bib_Cuddy_et_al_2007; Fiske, 2012), views and values that are more likely to align with the dominant narratives of the organization (Rosette, Leonardelli & Phillips, 2008), and ways of being and doing that effortlessly reﬂect the norm. Therefore, the mere suggestion by leaders that their input is welcome (Carmeli, Reiter-Palmon & Ziv, 2010; Nembhard & Edmondson, 2006; Roberson & Perry, pp. 755–778) may be enough for them to experience inclusion, whereas the same is less
