# Editorial

competence (i.e., felt mastery over tasks that help bring about desired out- comes). The satisfaction of these needs helps individuals to integrate into their larger social environment and thereby experience inclusion, while the frus- tration of these needs by others deprives individuals from experiencing authenticity.

It’s important to note that the SDT perspective on need satisfaction and inclusion differs from other similar accounts (e.g., Shore et al., 2011). First, according to SDT, there is no tension between the three needs; instead, this perspective would argue that to feel belonging, one needs others to support their uniqueness (Leroy et al., pp. 798–839). Second, SDT argues that for people to be able to be authentic and autonomously motivated at work, there are three (rather than two) psychological needs that must besatisﬁed. The need for competence (van den Broeck, Ferris, Chang & Rosen, 2016; van den Broeck et al., 2008) is an especially useful addition to prior work (Shore et al., 2011) for understanding inclusion in the context of achieving organizational- related goals.

Considering the need for competence together with belonging and au- tonomy helps clarify the conditions under which someone is likely to ex- perience inclusion at work. Decades of research has established that people are prone to social categorization processes that result in superﬁcial, stereotype- based views of others. Unfortunately, for members of historically margin- alized and/or role incongruent social identities, this often means that others’ perceptions of them are colored by assumptions of incompetence (Cuddy et al., 2009; Eagly & Karau, 2002; Heilman, 2001). Even if on the surface their distinctiveness is visible, negative “othering” frustrates the basic need for competence, thereby impacting experiences of inclusion. In other words, being unique is risky for members of lower-statusgroups because assumptions of lower competence accompany their distinctiveness (Fiske, 2012), thereby triggering a desire to be less visible (Clair, Beatty & MacLean, 2005; Hewlin, 2009). In comparison, when status characteristics and associated assumptions of (in-)competence are invalidated in a particular context and workgroup members develop more personalized understandings of each other, members of historically marginalized groups are likely to be seen in more complex ways that align with how they see themselves (Nishii, 2013). The fulﬁllment of the basic need for competence transforms what is often negative othering— speciﬁcally, experiences of hypervisibility in which one’s differences are seen as deviant and competence is heavily scrutinized, and/or invisibility, the feeling of being chronically unseen, unappreciated, and unheard (Buchanan & Settles, 2019; McCluney & Rabelo, 2019; Settles, Buchanan & Dotson, 2019)—into positive visibility, which facilitates felt inclusion.