# Editorial

Inclusive Leadership as a Moderator of First-Stage Relationships at the Organizational-Level (Figure 1, link 3a) While espousal of an organization’s commitment to inclusion is easy, leading in ways that ensures that this commitment is enacted in visible, reliable, and consistent ways is not (Simons, Leroy & Nishii, pp. 798–839). Senior leaders who create meaningful inclusive policies and hold managers throughout the organization accountable for implementing them will more successfully foster inclusive leadership among workgroup leaders and reduce perceived de- coupling between the organization’s espoused and enacted inclusion strategy (Mor Barak et al., pp. 840–871).

Articulating and Designing the Organization’s Inclusion Strategy. Senior leaders are responsible for guiding their organization’s diversity and inclusion strategy and designing policies and practices that support that strategy (Boal & Hooijberg, 2000; Mor Barak et al., pp. 840–871). Doing so effectively is predicated onthe understanding thattraditional diversity management policies and practices (i.e., equal employment opportunity) are themselves necessary but insufﬁcient for promoting the synergistic outcomes associated with in- clusion (van Knippenberg et al. 2020), as most diversity practices are not focused on transforming the socio-relational context that shape’s people’s experiences at work(Nishii, 2013; Nishii et al. 2018).Unfortunately,however, while the ubiquity of means-end decoupling—that is, when policies are decoupled from what is needed to achieve desired goals (or ends; Bromley & Powell, 2012)—has been noted by others (Green & Kalev, 2008; Nishii et al. 2018; van Knippenberg et al. 2020), there is little research that speaks to the organizational policies and practices that would be best for stimulating the development of quality cross-boundary relationships and the open exchange and integration of divergent ideas.

The core elements of inclusive leadership described at the individual- and workgroup-levels of analysis offer insights about ways to expand the set of organizational practices that are adopted by organizational leaders into the policies and practices that would be valuable to adopt as part of their inclusion strategy. In order to foster the development of inclusive climates throughout the organization, senior leaders need to provide managers with the tools and the motivation to engineer inclusive climates (Nishii & Leroy, 2021) through a combination of carefully designed training, evaluation, and reward struc- tures. To further promote synergistic interaction processes, the organization’s selection, training, and evaluation processes should focus on the competencies that are required for value creation, such as the ability to coordinate and leverage the unique strengths and competencies of employees through