# Editorial

experiences; they do so by actively inviting diverse input and participating in its integration and by role modeling it themselves (Nishii & Leroy, 2021). Leader instruction and role modeling, followed by ongoing coaching and reinforcement, helps ensure that group members understand how to enact diversity mindsets effectively.

Using a social networks approach, Nishii and her colleagues (Nishii & McAlpine, 2018) found that higher levels of information elaboration in in- clusive climates are explained by the fact that workgroup members have proportionately more instrumental ties with racially dissimilar coworkers (i.e., it is more likely for people to recognize and leverage the competence of racial outgroup members than in less inclusive climates). In their study, they asked employees to self-report the quality of each of their workgroup relationships, measured in terms of the extent to which they feel they can be their true selves, can safely disagree with the other person, and the degree to which the re- lationship is based on trust. Interestingly, their data suggest that while the quality of instrumental ties with racially dissimilar others is sensitive to the inclusiveness of the workgroup climate, the quality of friendship ties with dissimilar others, and the quality of both instrumental and friendship ties with similar others, are not. Moreover, their data suggest that the inclusiveness of the climate has a larger impact on the extent to which white employees—as compared to racial minorities—report racially dissimilar coworkers as competent sources of key work-related insights. What this suggests is that when inclusive leaders advocate for diversity mindsets as part of their climate engineering behaviors, they positively impact workgroup processes by making it more likely for minority workgroup members to be included in information networks that are instrumental to the group’s work.

Developing Team Charters. A common theme across conceptualizations of inclusive leadership (e.g., Carmeli et al., 2010; Nembhard & Edmondson, 2006; Randel et al., 2018; Roberson & Perry, pp. 755–778; Shore & Chung, pp. 723–754) is the importance of leader actions to promote the participation of all members in decision-making; that is,to distribute decision-makingvoice across workgroup members. Inclusive leadership behaviors at the individual- level (described above) serve as important building blocks for facilitating the participation of all group members in group information elaboration by au- thorizing voice broadly and validating the distinctiveness of group members. Nevertheless, in the absence of structures to guide effective teamwork, groups are more likely to experience conﬂict and other dysfunctional interpersonal processes—this is true of all teams (Mathieu & Rapp, 2009), but even more so of diverse teams (Homan et al., 2020).