---
source_path: eur_research_information_portal.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 785a99b721b5fc31bddd25caa64005ac0b4a0685
title: eur_research_information_portal
---
# Group & Organization Management 47(4)

processes and performance. Surprisingly, many theories of inclusive lead- ership do not focus at all on the workgroup-level of analysis (e.g., Carmeli, et al., 2010) even though diversity itself is a unit-level construct. In many cases, the individual- versus workgroup-level referents of inclusive leadership are confounded.

Team leadership theories are rooted in the functional leadership perspective according to which the responsibility of workgroup leaders is to set groups up with what they need for successful collective functioning (DeChurch & Marks, 2006; Hackman & Wageman, 2005; Lord, Wang, Phillips & Lount, 2017). More speciﬁcally, team leadership involves attention to a group’s task- and person-oriented needs during the two dominant phases of team activity: transition and action (Marks, Mathieu & Zaccaro, 2001). The transition phase (Figure 1, link 2a) involves planning for the action phase by establishing workgroup norms, developing a shared understanding of workgroup goals, structuring roles and responsibilities, and sensemaking about critical events and workgroup experiences (Morgeson, 2010). During the action phase (Figure 1, link 2b), leader attention focuses on monitoring the workgroup’s performance and challenging the workgroup to engage in re- ﬂection to continuously improve team self-management (Morgeson et al., 2010).

However, as we arguedbefore,any theoryof inclusiveleadership shouldbe concerned speciﬁcally with diversity, including at the workgroup-level of analysis, though this has by and large not been the case (cf. van Knippenberg & van Ginkel, pp. 779–797). We know from decades of research on diversity that workgroup diversity is associated with both negative interpersonal dy- namics based on social categorization processes and stereotyping as well as superior performance when workgroups are able to successfully leverage the beneﬁts of informational diversity (Dwertmann, Nishii & van Knippenberg, 2016; van Knippenberg & Schippers, 2007; van Knippenberg & van Ginkel, pp. 779–797). When workgroup members respond negatively to diverse others, they disrupt information elaboration processes (van Knippenberg, Haslam & Platow, 2007).

What this implies is that inclusive leadership at the workgroup-level in- volves behaviors that mitigate negative group processes as well as those that catalyze positive ones, with the relative importance of each being informed by the circumstances faced by a diverse workgroup (Homan et al., 2020). In fact, research on workgroup diversity suggests that models of inclusive leadership that focus on one or the other but not both—for example, treatments of in- clusive leadership that focus primarily on efforts to welcome diverse voices in decision-making (e.g., Nembhard & Edmondson, 2006) without taking into account how negative diversity dynamics can get in the way—are therefore
