## Inclusive Leadership at the Individual-Level

Deﬁning Inclusion Inclusive leadership can be deﬁned as leadership processes that promote experiences of inclusion among followers. Although we agree with others that leadership should not be deﬁned by its outcomes (van Knippenberg & Sitkin, 2013), we nevertheless begin by exploring the deﬁnition of inclusion itself given its clear relevance for inclusive leadership. Common descriptions of inclusion refer to ensuring that everyone—regardless of their backgrounds— can bring their full selves to work, feel they belong, and are valued for what they have to offer (e.g., Ferdman, 2014; Ferdman & Davidson, 2004; Holvino et al., 2004). In their seminal paper, Shore and her colleagues (Shore, Randel, Chung, Dean, Ehrhart & Singh, 2011) drew from optimal distinctiveness theory to offer a framework for deﬁning the psychological experience of inclusion at the individual-level of analysis. According to them, people have a fundamental need to experience a sense of belonging while also maintaining, and being valued for, what makes them unique or distinctive (Brewer, 1991). These two dimensions of inclusion are assumed to be in tension to the extent that too much of one can come at the cost of the other. While the psychological state of inclusion is itself an important end goal, this operationalization is somewhat abstracted from the work context and, as such, what it means for leaders may remain fuzzy. We contend that when it comes to understanding inclusive leadership, there is a lot to be gained by conceptualizing inclusion as it relates to engaging meaningfully and strategically in goal-directed behavior at work (Locke & Latham, 1990; Wood & Bandura, 1989).

There are two theories that offer a useful lens for broadening the con- ceptualization of inclusion beyond belonging and uniqueness in a way that ﬁrmly roots it in people’s experiences at work and directly links it with work- related outcomes of interest. The ﬁrst is self-determination theory (SDT; Deci & Ryan, 2000), which is primarily concerned with understanding what drives intrinsic motivation to “seek out novelty and challenges, to extend and ex- ercise one’s capacities, to explore, and to learn” (p. 70) in pursuit of orga- nizational goals. The rich theoretical and philosophical underpinnings of SDT are focused on the conditions that enable individuals to feel like they can be and express themselves authentically, where being authentic involves in- tegration into one’s socio-relational surroundings (Ryan, 1995). SDTassumes that for people to feel autonomously motivated in their pursuit of organi- zational goals, three central needs must be satisﬁed simultaneously: belonging or relatedness (i.e., a sense of relational security), autonomy (i.e., internal locus of control over the expression of one’s thoughts and behaviors), and