# Group & Organization Management 47(4)

The second framework that helps enrich our understanding of inclusion, or what it means to bring one’s full self to work, is Kahn’s (1990) classic model of personal engagement at work and, by extension, the accumulated literature on authenticity in the workplace (Cha et al., 2019). People fully invest their cognitive, emotional, and behavioral energy into their work when they ex- perience the psychological meaningfulness, safety, and availability needed to do so. Psychological meaningfulness involves being able to contribute meaningfully and feel worthwhile at work and therefore having a reason to engage, and as such overlaps with the basic needs for competence, belonging, and autonomy. Whether people experience psychological safety to engage fully in their work depends on the social systems and work relationships in which they are embedded. When individuals feel vulnerable or unsupported lack of belonging) or experience identity threat based on others’ (i.e., stereotype-based assumptions of their incompetence, they are unable to ex- press their preferred self in their role performances because they are instead consumed with protecting themselves. Psychological availability refers to having the capacity to engage oneself fully at work unencumbered by the emotional labor associated with covering to downplay their stigmatized identity(s) (Hewlin, 2009; Roberts, 2005).

When individuals are empowered to contribute knowing that their col- leagues will see and value their competence and be interested not just in their perspectives but also what informs them (e.g., one’s social identities, past experiences), they experience both inclusion and engagement because their combined needs for autonomy, belonging, and competence are satisﬁed. When people are engaged, they bring their true thoughts and underlying identities to bear on their work (Kahn, 1990). However, when basic needs are frustrated, people defend or hide their true identities, creative thoughts, and capacities when fulﬁlling their work obligations. This is why felt inclusion at the individual-level is an essential precondition for leveraging the positive performance beneﬁts of diversity at the collective-level.

What is important is that conceptualizations of inclusion focus not only on social inclusion (i.e., belonging without having to minimize what makes one different or unique) but also on informational or task-related inclusion. In social network parlance, it is not just the “expressive” friendship ties one experiences at work, but also the “instrumental” ties—particularly the in-ties (i.e., the extent to which others turn to you as a key source of work-related advice)—thatmatter for experiences of inclusionat work(Nishii & McAlpine, 2018). Consistent with this notion, Mor Barak (2005, 2015; Mor Barak & Cherin, 1998) deﬁnes inclusion as the extent to which group members have access to information and resources and feel part of, and are invited to actively contribute to, formal and informal decision-making processes.