---
source_path: eur_research_information_portal.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: effcb8955e29bd7dfd0988cba9f06919fcfc0a59
title: eur_research_information_portal
---
# Group & Organization Management 47(4)

Leaving teamwork up to chance allows dominance dynamics and mis- understandings to limit the openness with which group members share their task-related ideas and coordinate their activities. Groups that proactively plan how they will attain their chosen objectives by developing a team charter enjoy greater success (Mathieu & Rapp, 2009). Thus, an important function of inclusive leadership is to reinforce their advocacy of diversity mindsets by guiding group members through a structured team chartering exercise early in the group’s lifecycle. Chartering involves identifying group members’ strengths and work style preferences and incorporating that information to come to agreement about members’ roles and responsibilities and how the team will surface diverse perspectives, resolve disagreements, and make decisions. Identifying the competencies and unique strengths of individual members helps optimize the potential outcomes of diversity mindsets by making the group’s diversity visible (Leroy et al., pp. 798–839). This in turn helps prepare workgroup members for disagreement, thereby making them more open to engaging in information elaboration (Loyd, Wang, Phillips, & Lount, 2013). Moreover, to the extent that they perceive that they are united by shared goals, workgroup members tend to be more open to individuating information (Gonzalez & Brown, 2006).

the importance of de- include agreement about correlating individual-level cognitive biases by soliciting independent input prior to a group discussion. Doing so helps the group to identify more al- ternative perspectives about an issue compared to open group discussion in which the ideas that are considered can become anchored in ideas that are shared early or byhigher-status group members. Other examples of interaction rules that can be established through chartering to improve communication in diverse workgroups include consistently making time for nonwork con- versations, listening with empathy, and rephrasing what one hears from other to conﬁrm understanding. Research by Earley and group members Mosakowski (2000) found that diverse workgroups that develop such norms to govern interpersonal interactions report higher workgroup identi- ﬁcation and efﬁcacy.
