# Group & Organization Management 47(4)

Advocating for Diversity Mindsets. Within the context of diverse groups, a core function of inclusive leadership is to help workgroups leverage their cognitive and experiential diversity to achieve synergistic performance outcomes. For this, workgroup members need to develop shared cognition about their group’s diversity and how to engage effectively with it; just because a group has diverse resources at its disposal does not mean that they will optimize it. To the extent that the workgroup context is experienced as intolerant of divergentperspectives, individuals may be unwilling to incur the psychosocial risks of voicing. As a general rule, humans tend to prefer cognitive con- sistency or congruence over incongruity, and this preference makes people more likely to focus on commonly held information at the expense of sharing unique information (Stasser & Stewart, 1992; Wittenbaum et al., 1999), and even avoid communicating with people who hold differing opinions alto- gether (Rosenbaum, 1986). Leaders play a critical role in advocating for diversity mindsets to motivate group members to resist the natural tendency to prefer similarity and push away distinctiveness and instead maintain an open mind when interacting with others (Roberson & Perry, pp. 755–778).

They do this by advocating for diversity mindsets, or the understanding that the constructive exchange and elaboration of diverse perspectives is essential for synergistic outcomes (van Knippenberg & van Ginkel, pp. 779– 797). Shared diversity mindsets make it less likely for social categorization processes to inhibit the elaboration of diverse task-relevant information be- cause they provide the motivation needed to engage in accurate impression formation instead of relying on simplistic and inaccurate stereotypes. Fur- thermore, by cultivating the expectation that group members strive to learn from each other, leaders make it more likely that they will challenge their assumptions, respond more openly to discrepant views, and expand their capacity to generate better decisions and solutions. This is what Leroy and his colleagues (Leroy et al., pp. 798–839) found: in the absence of leader ad- vocacy for diversity mindsets, attempts to leverage the beneﬁts of diversity in decision-making are less effective, and in some cases, negatively associated with team creativity because of members’ lower inclusion in their teams.

Advocacy for diversity mindsets involves sharing the leader’s own un- derstanding of how the group’s diversity is important for its work (Leroy et al., pp. 798–839; van Knippenberg & van Ginkel, pp. 779–797). Similarly, Nishii and Leroy (2021) argue that an important ﬁrst step to engineering an inclusive workgroup climate is to connect rather generic organizational messages about inclusion with more tangible task-related goals; that is, to articulate what inclusion means, what it looks like, and how it relates to the achievement of the group’s goals and day-to-day activities. Leaders strengthen the sharedness of diversity mindsets by guiding their groups through information elaboration