---
source_path: eur_research_information_portal.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: dcbe7e0d53757c7137bc384385cfc51f2ed645a3
title: eur_research_information_portal
---
# Editorial

Interestingly, much of the prior literature on inclusive leadership is not explicitly concerned with diversity per se, though the authors of this special issue believe it ought to be (cf., Roberson & Perry pp. 755–778; Shore & Chung pp. 723–754; van Knippenberg & van Ginkel pp. 779–797). By this, we mean that it has not explicitly acknowledged that the leader behaviors required to facilitate follower experiences of inclusion may vary as a function of how followers’ diverse social identities differentially shape their experi- ences of (dis-)similarity, status dynamics, and baseline psychological safety (Chrobot-Mason, Ruderman & Nishii, 2013), nor that at the workgroup-level, leadership behaviors need to be adapted to the particular needs faced by a workgroup based on its compositional diversity and associated diversity dynamics (Holvino, Ferdman & Merrill-Sands, 2004; Homan, Gündemir, Buengeler & van Kleef, 2020; van Knippenberg & van Ginkel, pp. 779–797). We argue, however, that it is critical that scholars take into account the speciﬁc diversity dynamics that may be at play rather than espouse elements of leadership that are generic, however important they may be. It is myopic to expect that the same leadership behaviors will have the same impact across individuals and workgroups. It is more realistic to think of inclusive leadership as an adaptive process through which leaders ﬂexibly enact the person- and task-focused leadership behaviors that are needed in a particular context of diversity (cf. Homan et al., 2020).

In what follows, we describe our multi-stage, multi-level model of in- clusive leadership as moderating ﬁrst- and second-stage relationships between inputs, intrapersonal and interpersonal processes, and (proximal) outcomes at the individual, workgroup, and organizational-levels of analysis. We focus on inclusive leadership as a moderating process because there is little consistent evidence of a direct effect of individuals’ social identities or workgroup diversity on outcomes. In all cases, key moderating factors are at play (Joshi & Roh, 2009; Williams & O’Reilly, 1998; van Knippenberg, Nishii & Dwertmann, 2020), with leadership being among the most important (DiTomaso & Hooijberg, 1996; Gelfan, Nishii, Raver & Schneider, 2005; Nishii & Mayer, 2009; Nishii & Leroy, 2021). Of course, inclusive leadership involves interacting mechanisms at each level of analysis as well as across levels given the nesting of individuals (and their dyadic relationships with leaders) within workgroups (Mannix & Neale, 2005), and workgroups within organizations (Pelled, Ledrod & Mohrman, 1999). Our intention is not to offer a model of inclusive leadership that is complete, but rather one that offers valuable organizing principles for future research.
