---
source_path: eur_research_information_portal.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b10a1ac05f6f03265f2cfe93a9802efbcbec11c5
title: eur_research_information_portal
---
# Group & Organization Management 47(4)

established norms about their value, thereby enhancing others’ perceptions of the employee as a member of the ingroup (Elsass & Graves, 1997; Nishii & Mayer, 2009; Scandura, 1999). Trust-based relationships are built through mutual active listening, a process that enables the leader to develop a per- sonalized understanding of the follower that (a) reduces the leader’s reliance on stereotypic assumptions about the follower (Ensari & Miller, 2006), thereby minimizing identity threat (van Dijk, Meyer, van Engen & Loyd, 2017) and validating the follower’s distinctiveness (McCormick, 1999); (b) reveals their unique strengths (van Woerkom et al., 2016); and (c) bestows ingroup status. By establishing high-quality relationships with followers with historically marginalized identities, leaders challenge existing assumptions about the relationship between social identities and competence, and in so doing delegitimize arbitrary status hierarchies and improve followers’ ex- periences of inclusion vis-`a-vis the leader as well as workgroup members (Nishii & Mayer, 2009). This indirect inﬂuence of the leader on followers’ experiences of inclusion manifests through the quality of the horizontal re- lationships among workgroup members: interpersonal treatment by work- group members that mirrors the high-quality, trust-based leader-follower relationship tends to be characterized by social and informational inclusion (Mor Barak, 2017), and the absence of micro-aggressions (Sue, 2010).

Counteracting Simplistic Stereotypes. In the absence of leader intervention, individuals who belong to higher-status social identity groups and/or reﬂect the cultural default and therefore are perceived as being high in both com- petence and warmth, are facilitated by others (Cuddy, Fiske & Glick, 2007; 2011). In contrast, individuals who belong to identity groups that are seen as comparatively lower in competence and/or warmth are harmed—they are treated in ways that reinforce negative stereotypes, for example, by being avoided, distrusted, given little room to contribute, and even treated with hostility. However, when individuals are motivated to attend to a target’s attributes in a more nuanced way they notice and accept stereotype- disconﬁrming information, allowing initial stereotype-based attributions and corresponding behaviors to fade (Fiske & Neuberg, 1990). By learning individuating information about followers—for example, about their unique strengths, competencies, and views—and making it visible to other work- group members such that they rely on this information instead of superﬁcial assumptions, leaders can interrupt stereotype-based interaction patterns (van Dijk et al., 2017). In so doing, leaders play an important role in ﬂipping negative othering (wherein social categorization processes perpetuate hy- pervisibility and invisibility; McCluney & Rabelo, 2019) to positive visibility. requires being aware of one’s own stereotype-based Doing this well
