## Inclusive Leadership at the Organizational-level

At the organizational-level, inclusion has to do with how the demographic composition of an organization’s workforce is reﬂected in its core decision- making and social networks (Mor Barak, 2017) and distribution of power, resources, and opportunities such that it is able to fully optimize the potential inherent in its diverse human capital resources. There are a range of orga- nizational outcomes of scholarly and practical interest. Favorable outcomes derived from synergistic interactions include innovation and competitive advantage (van Knippenberg et al. 2020), legitimacy to key stakeholders (Perry-Smith & Blum, 2000), and associated shareholder returns (Arthur, 2003). In addition, organizations that are successful at promoting inclusion also enjoy reputational advantages (i.e., being seen as an employer of choice), are more successful at retaining and advancing their diverse talent (i.e., managerial diversity), and are less likely to be charged with legal discrimi- nation suits (Nishii et al., 2018).

As is true at the workgroup-level of analysis, the relationship between an organization’s diversity and these outcomes is dependent on important moderating factors, many of which are controlled by leaders—for example, the inclusiveness of the climate. It is up to senior leaders to communicate the organization’s inclusion strategy and vision through their public espousals and, more importantly, through the structures, policies, and processes they put in place to enact that strategy (Hambrick & Mason, 1984). Lower-level leaders are in turn responsible for connecting the organization’s inclusion strategies to their everyday work—in particular how they manage their teams and in- dividual followers. Interestingly, as Mor Barak and her colleagues (pp. 840– 871) point out, there is very little research on inclusive leadership at the organizational-level.