---
source_path: eur_research_information_portal.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 60175a0fe67e5c35d3543d351426b5fc35f63b49
title: eur_research_information_portal
---
# Editorial

decision-making processes. Doing so guards against the possibility that members will misinterpret instances in which they have less inﬂuence in decision-making as evidence of a lack of inclusion because they can ap- propriately attribute different leader-initiated interaction patterns to strategic rather than personal reasons.

Co-Creating Superordinate Workgroup Identities. Workgroup diversity is more likely to be positively linked to learning and creative performance when workgroup identiﬁcation is high (Chatman, Polzer, Barsade & Neale, 1998; van der Vegt & Bunderson, 2005), or when workgroup members enjoy feeling distinctive yet connected by a shared identity. This is because when a su- perordinate workgroup identity is salient, members are more likely to see past initial social category-based judgments of each other and engage in greater cooperation (van Dijk et al., 2017). Unfortunately, whereas shared identities and pre-existing commonalities make it easy for a uniﬁed and shared workgroup culture to emerge in homogenous groups, this is not true in diverse groups wherein social categorization processes create subgroups, status hi- erarchies are easily perpetuated, and members have different expectations about how members should act and interact. In diverse groups it is often more challenging for members of historically marginalized groups to identify fully with the workgroup and/or organization, and therefore to experience be- longing. This is especially true when sanctioned mores and dominant nar- ratives reﬂect monolithic cultural ideals that do not accurately reﬂect their personally endorsed values and lived experiences, thereby making it difﬁcult to identify with them without causing internal conﬂict (Ryan, Connell & Deci, 1995).

Leaders have an important role to play in guiding the purposeful de- velopment of a hybrid or multicultural superordinate identity, or an emergent set of shared workgroup-speciﬁc norms and values that members develop and enact through their interactions (Earley & Mosakowski, 2000). The way that leaders attend and respond to critical incidents, and speciﬁcally how they engage in sensemaking with group members matters enormously for the group values that are reinforced (Morgeson et al., 2010). To the extent that leaders intentionally share in meaning-making with their followers, hybrid or mul- ticultural superordinate identities are more likely to emerge. Because hybrid cultures are co-produced by workgroup members, individuals with histori- cally marginalized identities experience higher superordinate identiﬁcation than in workgroups with monolithic cultures (Cox, 1993). Indeed, experi- encing holistic belonging requires that the identity of the group—including its norms and values—be deﬁned in such a way that a person can see themselves in it (Turner, 1985).
