# Journal of Career Development 43(1)

competing work and nonwork responsibilities, and are linked to reduced WFC and enhanced work– family enrichment (e.g., Kelly et al., 2008). Senior leaders and HR executives are also capable of formally restructuring job requirements to better accommodate employees’ nonwork lives, and to set realistic expectations for work-related time demands. For example, schedule control and flexible working arrangements serve to reduce WFC (Byron, 2005). Restructuring employees’ roles to be more flexible may be mutually beneficial as these work arrangements provide more work–family resources and enhance subordinate job satisfaction and citizenship behaviors (Kossek & Ozeki, 1998). However, family-friendly initiatives are ineffective if employees do not perceive their use to be supported by the organization (Allen, 2001; Thompson et al., 1999). The extant literature has suggested that when employees perceive the organization’s work–family culture to be unsupportive, they refrain from utilizing family-friendly policies for fear of negative career repercussions, such as being overlooked for a promotion or receiving negative performance evaluations (Judiesch & Lyness, 1999; Thompson et al., 1999).

Organizational work–family cultures are shaped by the values held by upper level leaders and pol- icy makers. Thompson, Beauvais, and Lyness (1999, p. 394) defined work–family culture as ‘‘the shared assumptions, beliefs, and values regarding the extent to which an organization supports and val- ues the integration of employees’ work and family lives.’’ Executive-level managers cultivate positive perceptions of a work–family culture by reducing fear of negative consequences associated with family-friendly benefit use, establishing reasonable organizational time demands that are compatible with other life domains, and providing and encouraging managerial support of work–family balance at all levels of leadership. Work–family policies are most utilized and effective when employees perceive the organization’s work–family culture to be positive and supportive (Allen, 2001; Thompson et al., 1999). A supportive family-friendly organizational culture may be particularly important for men reluctant to utilize flexible working arrangements for fear of being stigmatized as feminine and poor workers (Rudman & Mescher, 2013). Upper level leaders also communicate expectations and support to lower level leaders, increasing the likelihood that they too will facilitate employees’ whole-life career development by attending to work–family needs. It is imperative that executives work with direct supervisors to ensure that the organization’s formal work–life policies are supported by a pos- itive work–life culture.