# Litano and Major

decisions on others in their lives (Mainiero & Sullivan, 2005). In the kaleidoscope career, individuals evaluate the influence of work and nonwork factors on career development and evaluate available resources to find the best fit among work and personal commitments. Sullivan and Mainiero (2007) found that changes in one’s career path tend to correspond to psychological considerations across dif- ferent life stages. In making career-related decisions, individuals continuously evaluate three aspects of their careers, namely, authenticity, balance, and challenge. Authenticity refers to the alignment between an individual’s internal values and his or her external behaviors and organizational values. Balance refers to the attainment and sustainment of equilibrium between one’s work and nonwork demands. Challenge refers to an individual’s requirement for stimulating work and career advance- ment. The individual’s life stages and events influence the career decisions made based on which career factors were most salient at that specific time (Sullivan & Mainiero, 2007). For example, a new parent may place an increased emphasis on balance and respond by accepting a part-time working arrangement to spend more time with his or her family.

Originally, the literature surrounding the kaleidoscope career was only applied to women in the workplace, but the progressive shift in U.S. gender role attitudes from traditional to more egalitarian has made this career path equally applicable to men. Sullivan and Mainiero (2007) found that men and women tend to focus on different career aspects (balance, challenge, and authenticity) depending on their career and life stage. In general, both men and women focus on challenge early in their life spans. Men then gradually shift their focus to career authenticity followed by balance, whereas women tend to focus on balance before authenticity. Younger male participants were found to pursue more family- focused career patterns, consistent with the societal shift toward egalitarianism. Similar research sug- gests younger generations emphasize ‘‘living’’ over ‘‘working’’ and are more concerned with manag- ing work–life balance (e.g., Beutell & Wittig-Berman, 2008). Mainiero and Sullivan (2005) found that younger employees were more likely to emphasize balance and authenticity, whereas older generations prioritized career challenge. These findings highlight that employees’ careers do not develop based on a single trajectory but instead change based on personal life stage and events.