# The Work-Home (WH) Career Perspective

Recognizing the mutual influences that one’s career and personal needs have on one’s career path, Greenhaus and Kossek (2014) recently proposed a WH career perspective. The WH perspective high- lights how career development issues, including the appraisal of career success, decisions regarding global assignments, and career sustainability, can be better understood by considering how they are impacted by one’s personal life. For example, Greenhaus and Kossek (2014) stressed the interdepen- dencies between employees’ career management decisions (e.g., extensive travel) and family circum- stances (e.g., birth of a child). This implies a holistic or whole-life approach to making career management decisions regarding issues such as promotional opportunities, inter- or intraorganiza- tional mobility, and retirement. The WH perspective suggests that one’s personal life and career can both contribute to the experience of career development through life satisfaction and work–family bal- ance satisfaction (Greenhaus & Kossek, 2014).

The WH perspective incorporates both the work and the family domains into one’s ability to sustain a career. A WH sustainable career preserves and facilitates human and career development through resources related to balance and positive domain-related experiences (Greenhaus & Kossek, 2014; Iles, 1997). WH career sustainability concentrates on the cross-domain spillover of well-being, energy, and other positive experiences and states (Greenhaus & Kossek, 2014).

Similar to other conceptualizations of balance (e.g., Litano, Myers, & Major, 2014; Major & Litano, 2014), the interdependencies between one’s work and nonwork domains are constantly changing over time and across various career and life stages in WH sustainable careers. This perspective emphasizes that each domain (e.g., home) should be considered in decisions related to the other (e.g., work). For decisions related to career development, the decision-making process should include reflection on one’s familial responsibilities and how experiences will transfer between the work and the nonwork domains (i.e., family, self, and community). The WH perspective on careers builds on the notion that employees are taking a whole-life approach in the consideration of career management decisions, ulti- mately impacting the way organizations and researchers should conceptualize and manage employee development.