# Litano and Major

manage such a situation. With the information acquired in the whole-life needs assessment, supervi- sors are equipped to encourage and facilitate each employee’s career development through their stra- tegic use of organizational resources and policies.

The importance of the immediate supervisor is further evidenced by research demonstrating that high-quality leader–member exchange (LMX) relationships are predictive of positive work–family outcomes (e.g., Major, Fletcher, Davis, & Germano, 2008). LMX theory posits that supervisors develop unique, reciprocal exchange relationships with individual employees that are based on the mutual affect, contribution, professional respect, and loyalty (Liden & Maslyn, 1998). As subordinates complete prescribed and extra-role duties, they distinguish themselves from their peers and are more likely to be provided with resources that support their personal and career needs. A high-quality LMX relationship is mutually beneficial as subordinates are afforded more communication, support, feed- back, flexibility, and role negotiation—all resources that can facilitate one’s career and personal bal- ance (Liden & Maslyn, 1998). Reciprocation leads to increased task and contextual performance and reduced turnover intentions, benefiting the supervisors and organization (Duchon, Green, & Taber, 1986).

Matthews, Bulger, and Booth (2013) suggested that family-supportive supervisor behaviors (FSSBs) may account for the relationship between LMX and positive work–family outcomes. FSSBs are a set of behaviors demonstrated by supervisors that are supportive of employees’ family lives and include emotional support (i.e., considering subordinate’s feelings and well-being), instrumental sup- port (i.e., allowing and encouraging employees’ use of family-friendly programs), role-modeling beha- viors (displaying effective work–life management behaviors that function as an example for subordinates to follow), and creative work–family management (i.e., restructuring work roles to accommodate both the organization and the employee; Hammer, Kossek, Yragui, Bodner, & Hanson, 2009; Hammer, Kossek, Zimmerman, & Daniels, 2007). FSSBs are associated with increased positive work–family spillover and reduced WFC (Hammer et al., 2009). Supervisors who develop high-quality LMX relationships provide their employees with the opportunity to negotiate idiosyncratic deals (i-deals), which may be represented by the creative work–family management dimension of FSSB. I-deals are special employment terms between an individual employee and a supervisor that are intended to benefit both parties (Rousseau, Ho, & Greenberg, 2006). When supervisors feel authorized and empowered by upper level leadership, they can leverage these arrangements to better manage each employee’s personal and career roles and goals (Lauzun, Morganson, Major, & Green, 2010; Major, Lauzun, & Jones, 2013), ultimately facilitating whole-life development in an organizational career. In addition to establishing a high-quality relationship with one’s subordinates, supervisors can proactively serve as mentors to stimulate positive employee work attitudes and career prospects (Scan- dura & Williams, 2004). Mentors invest in their prote´ge´s’ whole-life development by offering support and resources, providing challenging tasks, coaching, and feedback, and by using their clout in the organization to sponsor and safeguard the prote´ge´ (Kendall, 2013). Kendall (2013) suggested that supervisors should foster mentoring relationships with subordinates to facilitate employee personal and career development. Pan, Sun, and Chow (2011, p. 265) define supervisory mentoring as ‘‘an intense interpersonal exchange between the supervisor and a subordinate in which the supervisor pro- vides support, direction, and feedback regarding career plans and personal development.’’ Supervisory mentors are more committed to the long-term development of the subordinate, and the pair shares a more meaningful personal relationship than other mentor arrangements (Booth, 1996). According to Richard, Ismail, Bhuian, and Taylor (2009), supervisory mentors have more opportunities to provide career-related resources than nonsupervisory mentors. Given their knowledge of subordinates’ career and personal needs and their responsibility for subordinates’ work-related development, supervisory mentors are well positioned to facilitate employee ‘‘whole-person’’ development (Kram & Isabella, 1985). Supervisory mentors provide employees with role modeling, career support, and psychosocial support (Scandura & Ragins, 1993), which are associated with objective (e.g., promotions,