---
source_path: facilitating_a_whole_life_approach_to_career_development_the_role_of_organizatio.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b13c0c1fe7c8db37cdb8a6a0946d362bb1d9eded
title: facilitating_a_whole_life_approach_to_career_development_the_role_of_organizatio
---
# The Boundaryless and Protean Careers

In response to globalization, organizational restructuring, and economic conditions, the positional hierarchies within organizations began to level as the 21st century approached, prompting declarations that the traditional ‘‘career is dead’’ (Hall, 1996). Concurrent with these organizational changes, the notion of a career unconstrained by organizational boundaries emerged in the career development lit- erature (Arthur & Rousseau, 1996). For example, Baruch and Rosenstein (1992, p. 478) defined a career as ‘‘a process of development of the employee through a path of experience and jobs in the orga- nization(s).’’ Vertical movement through a single organization was no longer a necessary characteris- tic of one’s career, and the career development models shifted away from the traditional career (e.g., Arthur & Rousseau, 1996). Employers maintained expectations for high performance and commit- ment, while simultaneously shifting responsibility for career development firmly to the employee in the name of ‘‘employability’’ (i.e., the idea that in order to maintain their marketability employees are responsible for maintaining and developing their skills; Cappelli, 1999).

Contemporary careers were recognized as varying in form, such that some were characterized by interorganizational mobility, lateral movement within a single organization, or variations in employ- ment arrangements over time to better align with nonwork circumstances (Arthur & Rousseau, 1996; Hall, 2004). Objective indicators of career success were becoming increasingly supplemented by non- work considerations to form a whole-life perspective on career development (Hall, 2004; Mainiero & Sullivan, 2005).

Arthur and Rousseau (1996) applied the term ‘‘boundaryless career’’ to describe how a career unfolds beyond the borders of a single organization. In the boundaryless career, the individual employee is liberated from organizational constraints on career planning and development, and is free to pursue opportunities to advance his or her career by changing employers. The boundaryless career involves the development of short-term, contractual relationships with multiple employers to achieve external indicators of career success (e.g., promotions and pay increases; Arthur et al., 2005).

Similarly, Hall (1976, p. 201) described the ‘‘protean career’’ as a contemporary career path which, ‘‘consists of all of the person’s varied experiences in education, training, work in several organizations, changes in occupational field, etc.’’ Career development in the protean career is driven by internal (psychological) perceptions of success, such as self-actualization, fulfillment, and satisfaction, rather than the external indicators of success characteristic of other career orientations (Hall & Mirvis, 1996; Sullivan & Arthur, 2006). Although boundaryless and protean careers originally were distinguished by their respective emphases on physical and psychological success and mobility, career theorists now acknowledge the interdependence between the physical and the psychological aspects of careers as a driver of individual career management decisions. Sullivan and Arthur (2006) proposed that physical mobility, which refers to the actual transition across organizational boundaries (i.e., changing employ- ers), interacts with psychological mobility (the perception of one’s willingness and preparedness to make that transition) to influence individual employee career development needs. Careers exhibit var- ious levels of psychological and physical mobility; but perhaps most importantly, these career changes can be heavily influenced by employee responses to nonwork circumstances (Sullivan & Arthur, 2006). For example, an employee could exhibit both physical and psychological mobility in turning down (or accepting) a promotion that would hinder (or facilitate) familial responsibilities.
