---
source_path: facilitating_a_whole_life_approach_to_career_development_the_role_of_organizatio.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d8a1c22e421d845c64d9b2dce7bf6d037a8859bf
title: facilitating_a_whole_life_approach_to_career_development_the_role_of_organizatio
---
## Coordinating Leader Support Across Levels

Research shows that the use of family-friendly practices is associated with reporting to a family- supportive supervisor (Breaugh & Frye, 2008). Of course, supervisors are most likely to refer their employees to family-friendly programs when they are aware that such programs exist in their organi- zations and when they believe that program use will be associated with beneficial outcomes (Casper, Fox, Sitzmann, & Landy, 2004). Thus, the importance of aligning support for work–family balance across leadership levels cannot be overstated. Leaders across organizational levels play an integral role in supporting employees’ work–life management. Meta-analytic evidence suggests that work–family- specific organizational support acts as a mediator in the relationship between work–family supervisor support and employee WFC (Kossek et al., 2011). Put simply, organizational and supervisor support for work–family is most effective in the reduction of WFC when both are present and perceived posi- tively. Perhaps most importantly, family-friendly programs are only effective when employees per- ceive that their supervisor and organization support their use (Allen, 2001; Kossek et al., 2011). As an example of misaligned support, a well-intentioned supervisor may be limited in his or her ability to provide the appropriate family-friendly resources if he or she does not feel empowered to respond to family-related requests. Research suggests that supervisors accommodate work–life requests more often than not, and when first-line managers deny employees’ work–life requests the primary reason is lack of authority (Lauzun et al., 2010).

Lauzun and colleagues’ research suggests that employee perceptions of organizational work–family practices may be most favorable when support for work–family balance is aligned across leadership levels. A seamless line of communication between upper- and lower level leaders facilitates alignment of work–family support. For example, work–family feedback gathered by direct supervisors can help executive-level leaders to identify characteristics of the work-context that need restructuring. Align- ment in work–family support across leadership levels provides the organization with an opportunity to be continuously mindful of employees’ changing whole-life career development needs, making the organizational career a more viable option for employees.
