---
source_path: facilitating_a_whole_life_approach_to_career_development_the_role_of_organizatio.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2d366ad0a8e67c4a7ad46e0bd82bdb855e4f8911
title: facilitating_a_whole_life_approach_to_career_development_the_role_of_organizatio
---
# Litano and Major

Individual work–life balance refers to the achievement of fulfilling experiences in both work and nonwork domains while expending resources reasonably across both role sets (Kirchmeyer, 2000; Mainiero & Sullivan, 2005). One’s personal balance differs intra- and inter-individually and does not necessarily entail an equal investment across domains or time (Litano et al., 2014). Major and Litano (2014) characterized personal balance as a form of adaptability that empowers individuals to pursue goals in the changing landscape of their work and personal life. At a given point, for example, this may involve geographical relocation in order to earn a promotion, and at another point, one’s family role may be prioritized due to the need to care for an aging parent. Ultimately, perceptions of work–family balance are enhanced when work–family conflict (WFC) is minimized and work–family enrichment is maximized (Frone, 2003). Greenhaus and Beutell (1985, p. 77) defined WFC as ‘‘a form of interrole conflict in which the role pressures from the work and family domains are mutually incompatible.’’ WFC is associated with an abundance of negative outcomes, including reduced job and life satisfaction (Kossek & Ozeki, 1998) and weaker career success and job performance (Allen, Herst, Bruck, & Sut- ton, 2000). Conversely, work–family enrichment is defined as ‘‘the extent to which experiences in one role improve the quality of life in the other role’’ (Greenhaus & Powell, 2006, p. 73). Work–family enrichment is related to positive outcomes including job and family satisfaction, and organizational commitment (McNall, Nicklin, & Masuda, 2010). When there is a perceived work–family imbalance, employees may seek alternative employment with organizations that better accommodate their per- sonal and/or career needs.
