---
source_path: facilitating_a_whole_life_approach_to_career_development_the_role_of_organizatio.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 55041f4a658f09fb12ace999d2eb3a8d700e681f
title: facilitating_a_whole_life_approach_to_career_development_the_role_of_organizatio
---
# Litano and Major

talented workers, which supports the notion that work–life management may be in the employer’s best financial interest. The ‘‘business case’’ for work–life management was also supported by Clifton and Shepard (2004), who suggested that these initiatives are effective because family-friendly companies attract a larger applicant pool enabling the organization to be more selective. Organizations that pro- vided and supported work–life programs attracted higher quality candidates and realized increases in organizational productivity through increased employee output. Evidence from a recent meta-analysis suggests that the presence of family-friendly programs is predictive of applicant attraction (Uggerslev, Fassina, & Kraichy, 2012).

Although limited in scope, a growing body of literature has been dedicated to exploring how the accommodation of employees’ whole-life development needs may positively affect organizational performance and effectiveness. For example, organizational commitment to employees’ emotional and physical well-being positively impacts organization-level return on assets (Lee & Miller, 1999). The authors posit that commitment to employee well-being stimulates a mutual sense of loyalty that gen- erates performance improvements and organizational success, acting as a competitive advantage for these organizations. Further research has evidenced that organizations investing in employee human capital development realize increased financial performance, return on equity, and customer satisfac- tion (Carmeli & Schaubroeck, 2005). Sands and Harper (2007) found the use of family-friendly pro- grams to be negatively related to employee turnover and positively associated with organizational return on assets and return on equity. Ngo, Foley, and Loi (2009) found work–life program availability to be related to increased market performance (i.e., sales/turnover, net profit, and new product devel- opment) and HR-related performance (e.g., employee morale and retention). Thus, organizations that approach career development through a whole-life lens attract more applicants, retain valuable employees, and may realize increases in productivity and financial performance. Accommodating employees’ personal needs through work–life initiatives may improve retention and make the organi- zational career a more viable option.
