# DISCUSSION

This study tested the inﬂuence of the use of EHM best prac- tices components, when considered separately, on the engagement ratesandhealthoutcomesbetweencompaniesandacrossindividuals within those companies. In particular, this study examined whether best practices approaches had differential effects when considering the sex, age, and health status of employees. Given the nascent stage of development and implementation of best practices in the EHM ﬁeld, it is understandable that most scorecards are basically a “one size ﬁts all” assemblage of recommended practices. This study’s ﬁndings draw attention to the more likely reality that one size does notﬁtallinEHM.Notonlydiditﬁndthatbestpracticescomponents, whenconsideredseparately,variedintheirinﬂuenceaccordingtothe age and sex of a population, it also found that some best practices components had a greater inﬂuence on engagement levels and other components had a greater inﬂuence on employee behavior change. When considering how the various best practices components had differential effects on engagement and outcomes, it is instruc- tive to note that the companies in the study were quite similar con- cerning which best practices components they offered. Two thirds offered biometric screening, nearly all offered employees a ﬁnancial incentive for completing an HA and most use multiple channels to communicate program offerings. This ﬁnding suggests that some “best practices” recommendations may be becoming common prac- tice. Though less commonly employed, some employers are now using incentives to encourage enrollment in health coaching inter- ventions. Although building a “culture of health” has become a standard recommendation related to improving EHM outcomes,37 the slow adoption of best practices related to changing the physical or social environment or mobilizing champions may suggest that re- sourcesandtoolstosupportculturechangeareneededorthatcurrent deﬁnitions of what is meant by a culture of health are wanting.

Not adjusting for the inﬂuence of best practices, men were slightly more likely to achieve successful behavior change than women but, again, there is interesting variability between compa- nies. This ﬁnding is partially consistent with another study that found that older participants were more likely to successfully com- plete wellness programs; however, in that study women were more likely than men to have sustained participation and behavior change in the programs.34 Again, further analysis between companies in this study seems to reconcile these inconsistencies and suggests that sex and age differences can be mitigated signiﬁcantly by the company in which the interventions occur. This perspective is explored further in the discussion of the company-level analysis of the inﬂuence of best practices that follows.