---
source_path: fast_track_art_i_c_l_e.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 158e71f6cae66c45fea77e61077e579391611fe0
title: fast_track_art_i_c_l_e
---
# Company-Level Models

The individual model results demonstrated considerable dif- ferences across companies in how two very simple demographic characteristics—age and sex—impacted typical metrics used in an- alyzing the impact of EHM programs. This stage of the analysis extended that logic by exploring the extent to which those company differences were systematic and can be modeled on the basis of other company characteristics. In this section, the coefﬁcients that were presented in Tables 6 and 7 were treated as dependent variables in a new analysis based at the company level. The independent variables of this analysis were characteristics of the organization. Speciﬁcally, HERO Scorecard measures (see Tables 3 and 4) were used to ex- plain the variation in the strength of the relationships observed and explore whether or not the HERO Scorecard measures statistically relate to the coefﬁcients obtained for the individual-level measures of age, sex, and baseline risk to impact enrollment, participation, and behavior change in the company-speciﬁc individual-level models.

Because these analyses were performed at the company level, thesamplesemployedintheseanalysesweresmall.Attheenrollment level, there were 55 companies included and at the active participa- tion level there were 47 companies. For the participant behavior change model, 36 companies had the requisite information per the data analysis plan criteria. Because of this, the conventional deﬁni- tion of statistical signiﬁcance was relaxed from P < 0.05 to P < 0.10 to more discriminately examine the between-company variation.

Table 8 presents the results of a bivariate correlation analysis relating the HERO Scorecard measures to the effect coefﬁcients in the enrollment model. Two measures were related to the size of the intercept—a measure that was, in this context, treated as a company’s blended average for enrollment rates while controlling for age and sex—and in both cases the results were counterintuitive. Companies that used noncash incentives to promote enrollment in coaching programs had signiﬁcantly lower rates of enrollment than those who used no incentives. Similarly, companies that offered more environmental supports for health had lower baseline rates of enrollment.

At the individual level, sex had a negligible impact on partici- pation but with substantial variability—in some companies, women were more likely to be active participants, whereas in others, men were more likely to be active participants. Table 9 shows that provid- inganoncashincentiveforcompletingtheHAwasnegativelyrelated to the sex effect coefﬁcient. As such, the impact of these noncash incentives was variable. If men were more likely to participate, then adding a noncash incentive would likely lead to decreased male par- ticipation and equalization of the male–female participation rates. If male–femaleparticipationrateswereaboutequal,thenaddinganon- cash incentive would likely drive female participation rates higher. If women were already participating at a higher rate than men, adding a noncash incentive would likely intensify that difference. A deeper review of the analysis relied on scatter plots of these coefﬁcients (not shown) and concluded that this sex-biased inﬂuence of noncash incentives was consistent across nearly all organizations. In short, in this study sample, noncash incentives were more inﬂuential on program engagement for women than for men.

Only one HERO Scorecard measure, number of evaluation components, was related to the age coefﬁcients in the participa- tion model. Recall from the individual-level analysis that as age increased participation generally increased also, and that again there was variability across companies. Table 9 shows that there was a negative relationship between the number of evaluation components and the age coefﬁcient, suggesting that in an environment where older persons are already more likely to participate, having a com- prehensiveevaluationplanwasassociatedwithreducedparticipation rates among older employees, but in an environment where old and young employees participated at approximately equal rates, having a comprehensive evaluation component was associated with higher participation rates among the younger employees. In environments where younger employees had higher rates of participation, having a comprehensive evaluation component was associated with even higher participation rates among the younger employees. In short, a comprehensive evaluation component may drive greater participa- tion among younger employees.

Table 10 presents the results that relate the HERO Scorecard measures to the effect coefﬁcients in the behavior change model. Two HERO Scorecard measures were related to the intercept in this model, which in this instance may be viewed as the typical behavior change that is expected after controlling for age, sex, and baseline risk. Behavior change was calculated as T2–T1, which means that negative numbers indicated that risks decreased, so a negative coef- ﬁcient was a desirable result in this case. Companies that offered a cash or better incentive for completing an HA typically experienced greater behavior change, whereas more environmental supports were associated with a lower rate of behavior change, or perhaps even a modest health risk increase (health behaviors got worse).

At the individual level, men were typically less likely to enroll and older persons were more likely to enroll, but there was substan- tial variability across companies. None of the HERO Scorecard mea- sures were signiﬁcantly related to the sex variability. Nevertheless, offering biometric screening was signiﬁcantly related to the effect coefﬁcient for age, suggesting that providing a biometric screening option increased the strength of the relationship between age and en- rollment and could help drive higher levels of participation among older employees.

Table 9 presents the results of a bivariate correlation analysis relating the HERO Scorecard measures to the effect coefﬁcients in the participation model. One measure, the number of environmen- tal supports for health, was signiﬁcantly related to the intercept in this model, which again may be interpreted as representing base- line rates of participation adjusting for age and sex. Companies that offered more environmental supports had lower baseline levels of participation.

At the individual level, the relationship between baseline risk and behavior change was consistently negative, with higher levels of baseline risk associated with more behavior change. Companies that offered a noncash incentive for completing the HA saw health risks reduced to an even greater degree than companies without this incentive.

The sex effect at the individual level of analysis was some- times negligible, sometimes favored women, and sometimes favored men. Three HERO Scorecard measures were related to the effect that sex had on behavior change. Offering a cash incentive for complet- ing the HA was related to behavior change subsequent to completing the HA. Speciﬁcally, in an environment where men and women were comparable in their levels of behavior change, a cash incentive for completing the HA was associated with greater behavior change among men. In an environment where female behavior change ex- ceeded men’s, offering a cash incentive for completing the HA was associatedwithequalizingthemale–femaleratesofbehaviorchange, whereas in an environment where male behavior change exceeded
