# A Herd Effect

The ﬁndings concerning the relationships between age, sex, andbehaviorchange,whennotfactoringintheinﬂuenceofbestprac- tices, offer some preliminary considerations for understanding the best practice ﬁndings. If considering only the overall employee pop- ulation, application of study ﬁndings would lead readers to expect that enrollment in programs is somewhat more likely for women and enrollment increases in likelihood among older cohorts. This ﬁnding is similar to that of another study showing that women were more likely to participate in wellness programs38; however, another study showed no signiﬁcant sex differences in enrollment.34 This study’s additional analysis of differences between companies may explain the lack of consistency between it and prior studies because it shows striking differences at the company level, with some com- panies having women and older employees less likely to enroll and others having women and older employees being more than twice as likely as employees in other companies to enroll.

Social learning theory holds that individuals tend to emulate those around them. Perhaps, like the “herd immunity” concept in infection control39,40, there is a threshold for participation rates in organizations where a critical mass of those in an age or sex cohort have effectively created a snowballing level of interest and enroll- ment in programs. Furthermore, this study’s ﬁndings suggest that if a worksite population is already female or male dominated, this herd affect is ampliﬁed. These data suggest that the opposite could also be occurring. Those organizations that do not garner inertia among age and sex cohorts do not end up with average participation rates but rather fall well below average. Hence, it could be that observa- tional learning and modeling within that group, in effect, discourage participation.