# 51

inequality and the gender pay gap can cause stress and worry that one can be a victim of injustice. Together, these consequences call for a more longitudinal empirical research that may identify concrete actions for eradicating both gender inequality and the gender pay gap.

It is also worth mentioning that, although applying survey technique and quantitative analysis has contributed significantly to the research objectives of this thesis, statistical analysis alone provides only a limited picture of the perceptions of gender inequality and the gender pay gap in Finland. If one sets from the definition that equality manifests itself as opportunities to realize one’s own aims, then subjectivity, such as men’s and women’s own experiences, is an essential element which cannot be gained from statistics (Lehto, 1999). No single research method can answer all the questions about the nature of individuals’ perceptions since perceptions are extremely difficult to get at.

Given the sensitive nature of the research area, policy-capturing technique may be considered to be an alternative way to examining individuals’ and employees’ perceptions of gender inequality and the gender pay gap. Policy-capturing design allows obtaining more generalizable outcomes by asking the research respondents to act as how they would when evaluating inequalities between genders, instead of directly asking individuals how they perceive and experience the phenomena (Zhou and Martocchio, 2001). In addition, policy- capturing technique provides researchers with an opportunity to examine multiple factors that may simultaneously affect the way individuals perceive gender inequality and the gender pay gap. More details concerning this technique can be found in the third thesis paper.

Lastly, the general limitations of a quantitative study design should be discussed. Quantitative research is based on a positivist philosophy which assumes that there are social facts with an objective reality apart from the beliefs of the individual (Firestone, 1987). Quantitative research seeks to explain the causes in social facts through objective measurements and quantitative analysis (Firestone, 1987). At the same time quantitative analysis has a number of limitations. Its results are limited as they provide numerical descriptions rather than detailed narrative human perception. Quantitative analysis is often carried out in an unnatural, artificial environment so that a level of control can be used. The results of a quantitative analysis might not necessarily reflect how individuals really feel about a subject. It is, thus, reasonable to argue that a qualitative study might significantly contribute to the future development of the researched areas of perceived gender inequality, gender pay gap and pay inequity by examining further than precise numerical evidence.

5.4. Concluding remarks

The central aim of this thesis was to present a current and comprehensive picture of Finns’ perceptions of gender inequality and their reactions to pay inequity. Another goal of the thesis was to present theoretical explanations of those perceptions and reactions, along with empirical evidence for many aspects of the theoretical perspectives.

There were several reasons I was interested in conducting this thesis. In my opinion, a comprehensive study of how Finns perceive gender inequality and react to pay inequity may