# 73

Employment factors were measured by the following variables: sector gender composition – a dummy variable coded 1 for gender-neutral sectors (neither gender has a clear majority14), and 0 for male-/female-concentrated sectors (men or women have a clear majority). Reconciliation of work and family – measured by a four-item index. Respondents were asked whether it is normally difficult at their workplaces (a) for mothers of small children to refuse to work overtime for family reasons; (b) for fathers of small children to refuse to work overtime for family reasons; (c) for a women to stay off work to look after a child under the age of 10 who has fallen ill; and (d) for a man to stay off work to look after a child under the age of 10 who had fallen ill. Response categories were from 1 = not at all difficult to 3 = clearly difficult. The alpha coefficient was .82. Family leave for male employees – measured by a four-item index. Respondents were asked whether it is difficult (a) for men to take paternity leave for a duration of three weeks; (b) for men to take parental leave whose duration may vary from one to seven months; (c) for men to take child care leave until the child’s third birthday; and (d) for men to take part-time child care leave, which is possible until the end of the child’s second school year. Response categories were from 1 = not at all difficult to 3 = clearly difficult. The alpha coefficient was .84. Family leave for female employees – measured by a three-item index. Respondents were asked whether it is difficult (a) for women to take maternity or parental leave for duration of almost one year; (b) for women to take child care leave until the child is 3 years old; and (c) for women to take part- time child care leave, which is possible until the end of the child’s second school year. Response categories were from 1 = not at all difficult to 3 = clearly difficult. The alpha coefficient was .64.

According to some empirical evidence, employees’ perceptions of workplace gender inequality may vary within employment sector (Raevaara, 2008), employment position (Rosette and Thompson, 2005), employment contract and relationship (Howard and Frink, 1996), and requests for pay increase (Barron, 2003). Five control variables were thus included. They were measured as follow: employment sector – a dummy variable coded 1 for private sector and 0 for public/government sectors; employment position – a dummy variable coded 1 for employees in a supervisory or management positions as well as upper level white-collar employees, and 0 for lower-level white-collar employees and ordinary workers; employment contract – a dummy variable coded 1 for employees with full-time contracts, and 0 for employees with part-time ones; employment relationship – a dummy variable coded 1 for employees with permanent employment relationships, and 0 for employees with fixed-term/temporary employment relationships; requests for pay increase – a dummy variable coded 1 for employees who requested a pay increase for themselves during the last five years, and 0 for employees who did not.