---
source_path: file_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c792992de28809becc81aec15c77e8b86d2bcd5a
title: file_1
---
# 15

to these theories, it is extremely hard to overcome patriarchy since it is deeply embedded into the minds of most men. Women’s devaluation and subordination are part of the ideology and values of Western culture, as represented in religion, mass media, scientific and social literature, movies, etc. (Lorber, 2005). Gender inequality may thus end up only by putting more attention towards women’s experiences and perspectives in the production of knowledge and culture. These theories conceptualize inequality as an approach of difference, which concentrates on the unquestioned male norm that women have to reproduce (Verloo and Lombardo, 2007). According to this conceptualization, focusing on similarities ignores the differentiated character and dynamics of inequalities. Equality that lies behind the claims of excluded groups for justice leads to the ignorance of differences between men and women (Scott, 1988). The solution for this conceptualization of gender inequality is thus the reconstruction of male dominant traditions by finding recognition of women’s merits that have not been valued equally to men’s merits. Only by insisting constantly on differences between men and women, we can reach gender equality (Scott, 1988).

Rebellion feminist theories claim that gender is a complex hierarchy of privileged and subordinated men and women. Rebellion feminists question the stability and the need of the whole gendered social order (Lorber, 2005). These theories conceptualize inequality as a vision of transformation or displacement. This conceptualization states that gender inequality is not only about the exclusion of women from governing and leading positions and the predominance of male power, but about the gendered world itself (Verloo and Lombardo, 2007). The dilemma of gender equality can be solved in relation to sameness and difference, but it cannot be reduced into either of them (Holli, 2003). ‘Equality can only be conceptualized in between, in an intraspace or in a continuum of sameness and difference, where both of these concepts are present’ (Holli, 2003: 45). The solution for this conceptualization of gender inequality lies in deconstructing the equality discourse and adopting diversity politics, which can open the expression of ongoing debates over the meaning of gender equality (Verloo and Lombardo, 2007).
