# 49

support on the empirical findings of the present thesis and to broaden our knowledge on how different patterns of the perceived gender inequality and the perceived gender pay gap are interrelated. Such kind of a longitudinal study might be based on Finnish Gender Equality Barometers of 1998, 2001, 2004, and 2008.

Secondly, the first two papers of this thesis were based on the Gender Equality Barometer 2008, which was produced by Statistics of Finland for the Finnish Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. These data set is an extremely rich and valuable resource. However, it has some methodological limitations, such as a lack of validated scales, common method bias, and a lack of theoretically and empirically approved constructs, which resulted in low Cronbach’s alpha and low validity of some constructs.

In addition, since all empirical papers were conducted in the context of Finland, it might be suggested that the findings cannot be generalized to all societies. As Leung (2005) noted, there is a tendency for most social scientists to ignore social contexts in order to produce universal knowledge. However, the difficulty of separating universal and context-specific phenomena should be taken into account. Some theorists consider that, despite what can look like differences in development, there is only one fundamental development process for everyone (Kail and Cavanaugh, 2008). According to this view, differences in development are variations on a fundamental process. The alternative view is that differences among individuals are not simply variations on a theme (Kail and Cavanaugh, 2008). According to this view, human development is linked with the context within which it takes place. Each environment has its own set of unique procedures that construct the development. Indeed the concept of gender inequality may have different meanings in various environments (Verloo and Lombardo, 2007). So, for instance, while in some countries reconciliation of work and family as well as family leave would be the determinants of individuals’ perceptions of gender inequality, for others these factors would be considered as essential part of gender equality construct. Furthermore, level of economic development and compensation differentiation may vary considerably across countries.

Welfare state regimes may also have an impact on individuals’ and employees’ perceptions of gender inequality and the gender pay gap. Welfare state regimes are strongly associated with allocation of gender roles and the extent to which gender equality is achieved in the society (Esping-Andersen, 1989). While in “corporatist” state regime, social gender roles are clearly distinct (e.g. men are supposed to be assertive, tough, and focused on material success whereas women are expected to be modest, tender, and concerned with the quality of life), social gender roles overlap in “liberal” and “social democratic” regime-type states. Since in “corporatist” welfare states, gender role differences tend to be clearly diverse, women are likely to pursue stereotypically female roles and men are likely to continue dominating by following traditionally male roles. Such division of labour in “corporatist” welfare states advantages men and disadvantages women because men show greater dedication to their work, and women show greater dedication to their homes (Judge and Livingston, 2008). Therefore, in “corporatist” regime-type states, individuals might not have a tendency to recognize inequalities by considering this division of labour as correct and rational. In contrast, since women in “liberal” and “social democratic” regime-type states are expected to have more similar gender roles as men, both men and women are expected to recognize and perceive to a greater extent inequalities.