# 52

enhance current research and help to explain some inconsistencies and contractions. For example, younger people and students were found to perceive gender inequality to a lesser extent than older individuals, employed and retired people. One possibility for explaining this tendency is that younger people might have more liberal beliefs and attributes towards gender inequality or they might simply have less experience in dealing with possible cases of gender inequality. It was also found that employees in lower-level positions perceived workplace gender inequality to a greater extent than employees in upper-level positions. Employees who are in higher hierarchical positions might be responsible for possible cases of gender discrimination or benefit from gender status quo. Indeed it can be in their own interest not to respond to the suggestion that gender inequality exists in their organizations.

Does perception of gender inequality lead to its consciousness and concrete reactions or to its acceptance? The results of the thesis showed that employees tended to perceive gender inequality to a greater extent in society in general but not in their workplaces. It might be suggested that employees implicitly accept aspects of gender inequality that are so far removed from their immediate experience at work and, thus, perceive gender inequality in their workplaces to a lesser extent than in society in general. Many employees may also consider that workplace gender inequality and the gender pay gap are things of the past. Several social psychological theories were discussed in the theoretical part of the thesis explaining this phenomenon (see section 2.4.1).

Overall, the assumption is implicit that overall and societal gender inequality is generally acknowledged. At the same time, far more people are likely to perceive gender inequality in the society in general rather than in their own workplaces. Furthermore, male and female employees react relatively differently to underpayment and overpayment conditions. Comparing underpayment and overpayment conditions in organizations, the higher the level of pay inequity, the less committed to organization male employees are. This finding suggests that female employees are more sensitive to the organizational procedures and systems than to pay itself. This leads to the conclusion that while Finns realize that there are problems in Finnish society concerning gender inequality and the gender pay gap as a whole, they tend not to perceive the existence of these very problems in their own workplaces and do not explicitly react to pay inequity in their organizations.

Additional research is indeed needed to explore the psychological side of these tendencies. A broader understanding of individuals’ and employees’ perceptions and reactions may pave the way to more effective ways of reducing gender inequality, gender pay gap, and pay inequity all over the world since public opinion is a powerful source which may shape individuals’ actions in many ways. Such individual actions multiplied by thousands everyday may enhance change in a society in general and lead to constructing a society where everyone has equal opportunities.