# 26

Occupational status: occupational status might also have an impact on individuals' perceptions of the gender pay gap. According to social dominance theory (Sidanius and Pratto, 1999), individuals are motivated to believe that they live in a world where everyone gets what he/she deserves. Hence, the fact that individuals in high and moderate-status occupations get higher financial rewards than individuals in low-status occupations is a reflection of effort and is justified (Rosette and Thompson, 2005). Accordingly, individuals in moderate and high-status occupations are expected to possess higher standards of what forms a reasonable reward than individuals in low-status occupations and, thus, perceive pay inequalities and the gender pay gap, in particular, to a lesser extent than individuals in low- status occupations.

All the above-mentioned factors, which suggest having an impact on individuals’ and employees’ perceptions of gender inequality and/or the gender pay gap, have theoretical grounding. However, this thesis also includes the factors, which were not under investigation in the previous studies related to the topic.

Education: individuals who are more educated are likely to be more critical of the traditional labour segregation where women’ work is considered to be less valuable than men’s. It might be so because highly educated people may have a tendency to adjust their attitudes on the basis of evidence they come across rather than on historical and traditional norms (Judge and Livingston, 2008). Further, individuals with high education are likely to have more knowledge and are, thus, more aware of gender inequality and of the gender pay gap than individuals/employees with lower education (Davis and Robinson, 1991). Education is thus suggested to influence individuals’ and employees’ perceptions of gender inequality and the gender pay gap so that individuals/employees with high education will perceive both gender inequality and the gap to a greater extent than individuals/employees with basic or secondary education.

Living area: in many rural areas, the work of women is labeled as ‘unskilled’ and the work of men is defined as ‘skilled’ even if the tasks require similar and equal skills (Shunfeng and Aimin, 2006). Women are thus perceived as having lesser ability leading to a situation where men get better salary and treatment than women with the same abilities. Furthermore, home-based and unwaged work done by women is often undervalued in rural areas, while work of men is more ‘visible’ in terms of monetary and physical terms (Shunfeng and Aimin, 2006). It might thus be suggested that gender inequality persists more in rural rather than in urban areas. Therefore, living area is expected to have an impact on individuals’/employees’ perceptions of gender inequality in a way that individuals/employees living in urban areas will perceive it to a lesser extent than individuals/employees living in rural areas.

Harassment: there is growing evidence that experiences and awareness of harassment contribute to social inequalities, including gender inequality (Walby, 2004). Harassment has been empirically found to be associated with a range of negative personal and organizational consequences such as poor health, lower job satisfaction, and depression of employees, whilst organizations can experience higher absenteeism, higher turnover, and lower productivity (Mikkelsen and Einarsen, 2002). Experience of harassment can also decrease employee’s employment status, hours worked as well as increase their perceptions of gender inequality since psychological harassment is strongly related to gender inequality (Salin,