## 2.2.1. Feminist theories and conceptualizations of gender inequality

As an organized movement, feminism grew in the 19th century in Europe and in North America in response to the great inequalities of male and female citizens of Western industrialized countries (Lorber, 2005). There was no single set of claims beyond a few generalities that could be labeled as ‘feminism’. Different political, practical, and conceptual perspectives participated in its development.

Several types of feminist theories emerged in order to address gender inequality and develop solutions for overcoming it (Lorber, 2005). They can be divided into three groups: reform feminist theories (liberal, Marxist, socialist, postcolonial), resistance feminist theories (radical, lesbian, psychoanalytic, standpoint), and rebellion feminist theories (multicultural, feminist studies of men, social construction feminism, postmodern, poststructural). Each of these theories brings unique concerns to the discussion of gender inequality. Simultaneously, they all incorporate an idea of making men and women more equal legally, socially and culturally, so gender does not privilege men as a category or give them power over women as a category.

Reform feminist theories comprehend the source of gender inequality in the difference in men’s and women’s status in the social order considering that it is not the consequence of individual preferences or unequal interpersonal relationships (Lorber, 2005). These theories view gender balance as the solution for promoting gender equality, where both men and women are valued equally according to their human potential. These theories conceptualize inequality as a problem of achieving equality as sameness (strategy of equal opportunities). According to this conceptualization, the problem of inequality is that women have been excluded from the governing and leading hierarchical positions (Verloo and Lombardo, 2007). The solution for this conceptualization is seen in the introduction of women into these positions without challenging the underlying male tradition. The key issue of this conceptualization is equal opportunities for both men and women.

Resistance feminist theories aim at promoting gender-neutral social order of practices by providing women with more power. These theories claim that the gender order cannot be equal through gender balance since patriarchy, men’s dominance, is too pervasive. According