---
source_path: file_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 492709aff8ebe8b787705e8a157cd3057617f47c
title: file_1
---
# 89

achieving sameness, and the solution for overcoming it in the strategy of equal opportunities (Verloo and Lombardo, 2007). Furthermore, based on the model explaining consciousness of gender inequality (Davis and Robirtson, 1991: 72), those individuals, who are in favor of achieving sameness between men and women by providing both of them with equal opportunities, are proposed to be more likely to perceive overall gender inequality than those individuals, who are not in favor of achieving sameness between men and women.

Individuals’ perceptions of overall gender inequality might differ considerably depending on gender, marital status, education, area of living, and occupational categorization. Several empirical studies conducted in various countries showed that women tend to be more concerned about gender inequality than men (e.g., Borchorst and Siim, 2008); employed people tend to perceive gender inequality to a greater extent than other members of the society (Davis and Robinson, 1991; Smith and Rogers, 1996); married individuals are less aware of gender inequality than unmarried ones (e.g., Cohen and Kirchmeyer, 1995); highly educated individuals tend to be more critical towards unequal treatment of genders than lower educated ones (e.g., Judge and Livingston, 2008); and individuals living in urban areas are likely to perceive gender inequality to a lesser extent than those living in rural areas (e.g., Shunfeng and Aimin, 2006). The relationships between these factors and individuals’ perceptions of overall gender inequality are discussed below.

The gender socialization perspective (Stockard, 1999) offers some explanations on why women tend to perceive gender inequality to a greater extent than men. Men and women may differ in their perceptions due to their differential roles and positions in the society in general and organizations in particular (Borchorst and Siim, 2008). Many women have to demonstrate that they possess the same required skills and qualifications as men. Women thus continue to experience differential and selective treatment at home and at work based on their gender since the interests of those in more powerful position are represented more forcefully than the interests of the less powerful, who are more likely to be women (Bridges and Nelson, 1989).

Women might also perceive gender inequality to a greater extent than men as a consequence of the ‘confirmatory bias’ phenomenon, which relates to the tendency to see things that are expected to be seen. That is, if a person expects to see gender inequality, unless he/she has objective evidence to indicate it, he/she will be likely to perceive it. If this is so, then individuals’ perceptions of gender inequality may be a result of expected and not necessarily experienced injustice. Shapiro and Kirkman (2001) referred to this tendency as ‘anticipatory justice’ meaning that those who anticipate injustice are more likely to see injustice than those who do not experience injustice. Similarly, Sanchez and Brock (1996) argued that minorities, who expect gender discrimination based on a history of it or some negative work experience, are more likely to perceive discrimination than those who do not have this expectation. Based on the above argumentation, I thus propose that since in many cases women are disadvantaged by the distribution of opportunities, treatment, and conditions, they are likely to perceive overall gender inequality to a greater extent than men.

Hypothesis 1: women are more likely to perceive higher levels of overall gender inequality.
