# 78

inequality. However, it could also be the other way around. Those employees, who perceive the existence of workplace gender inequality, might consider themselves as not possessing a bargaining advantage (Barron, 2003; Kray, Thompson and Galinsky, 2001) or might believe that they have to work harder in order to be financially promoted, and, thus, they might be less likely to request a pay increase. Also, employees who accept their underprivileged status in organizations might be less likely to ask for pay increases than those employees, who are not exposed to gender inequality and thus do not accept it (Lockwood, 1986).

Although most of the previously mentioned findings were rather predictable and expected, the finding that lower-level white-collar employees and ordinary workers perceived workplace gender inequality to a greater extent than employees in supervisory or management positions as well as upper-level white-collar employees was rather surprising. The potential exists for employees in lower-level positions to acknowledge their lack of privilege and for employees in upper-level positions to obtain better treatment (Rosette and Thompson, 2005). That might be the reason why employees in upper-level positions are less conscious of workplace gender inequality than employees in lower-level positions. Similarly, the structural model of organizational behaviour (Kanter, 1977) suggests that a position in the organizational hierarchy influences employees’ behaviour and perceptions. According to the model, employees in lower-level positions may attribute their disadvantages at work to structural factors and, thus, be more conscious of gender inequality. In contrast, employees in upper-level positions might look for ways to maintain their power and be less likely to perceive the existence of social inequalities, including gender inequality.

On the one hand, this finding suggests that employees in higher hierarchical positions, who are thus privileged in organizations, may be least likely to perceive the existence of workplace gender inequality. Employees, who possess higher-level hierarchical positions, might also be responsible for creating and/or dealing with gender inequality. It can be in their own interest not to perceive the existence of gender inequality in their organizations.

Another explanation on how employment position may determine the way employees perceive workplace gender inequality lies in the glass ceiling phenomenon. Male and female employees enter the labour force in equal numbers. However, the majority of upper-level positions are primarily occupied by male employees. The tendency that male employees in general perceive workplace gender inequality to a lesser extent than female employees, and that male employees are mostly the ones who occupy upper-level positions might explain why employees in upper-level positions are less conscious of workplace gender inequality than employees in lower-level positions. I did a post hoc interaction analysis to analyze whether gender moderated relationships between employment position and employees’ perceptions of workplace gender inequality. However, this interaction was not supported empirically15. Therefore, despite the glass ceiling phenomenon, it appears that both male and female employees tend to perceive workplace gender inequality to a lesser extent when they are in higher hierarchical positions than when they are in lower hierarchical positions.

The fact that gender inequality is perceived by employees in higher-level hierarchical positions as existing somewhere else, but not in their workplace, drives to its continuous