# 122

Scales of Justice (2011) published by the Bertelsmann Foundation, ranks 4th among the 31 OECD countries in the index, which is derived from 25 separate indicators. Finland today is also characterized by women’s full-time employment and women’s high educational level. This has been led by governmental action and has the stronger effect on the public sector than on the private one (Hearn, Piekkari and Jyrkinen, 2009). From an international perspective, Finland is currently characterized by reconciliation of work and family and women’s high participation in political life (e.g., Husu, 2001). At the same time, the top positions of the Finnish business companies are mainly occupied by men (Corporate Gender Gap Report, 2010). Thus, women continue to be in a lower power positions than men; there is still a hierarchical difference between employees of different gender. For all these reasons, it is interesting to study whether there are gender differences in individual responses to pay inequity and procedural justice in the Finnish context.

All universities in Finland have recently implemented a new pay system based on evaluation of job demands and performance on the job (based on a local collective bargaining agreement reached the 21st June 2006). The objectives of the new salary system have been to promote fair salaries, to improve salary competitiveness for universities as employers, to support staff in developing their skills and in seeking more demanding tasks, to encourage staff to perform better, and to improve leadership and leadership skills (Kekäle, 2008). As a result of the collective bargaining process, pay levels in the old pay system, which were based on job title and seniority, had been guaranteed. The first job evaluations and performance appraisals were conducted in spring 2006 by the relevant supervisor, and further standardized by a university-level evaluation group that consisted of employer and employee (i.e., trade union) representatives. Following this, the pay consisted of two parts, the job-based base pay and the merit pay, which topped the job-based part to a maximum 46 %. Employees had been informed about their new pay levels in late 2006 or early 2007 (after one of the several evaluation group meetings where the job evaluations were standardized) when the study was conducted. For further information about the negotiation process, the pay system and intensive public discussions of the reform (see Kekäle, 2008).