# 27

2009). Thus, employees, who experience either psychological or sexual harassment or both, are expected to pay more attention to injustices and, thus, to perceive gender inequality to a greater extent than those ones who do not experience it.

Gender role orientation: gender role orientation may determine the way the gender pay gap is perceived. Gender role orientation is defined as the beliefs that individuals hold about the proper roles for men and women at work and at home (Judge and Livingston, 2008). Gender role orientation can be either traditional or egalitarian. Traditional conceptions of gender role orientation suggest that men specialize in the market work and build their careers with support from families, who provide them with confidence, while women prioritize their family life and think about career only afterwards. Alternatively, egalitarian gender role orientation allows flexibility for both men and women with the intention of managing their market and domestic household duties by relaxing the gendered separation of work and family (Judge and Livingston, 2008).

Individuals holding traditional gender role orientation are expected to follow a traditional division of labour preserving power and superior privilege held by men. They are expected to be less concerned about the gender pay gap. Conversely, individuals with egalitarian gender role orientation are expected to perceive the gender pay to a greater extent than others because they are more likely to adjust their attitudes on the basis of evidence they receive rather than on traditional conceptions (Duehr and Bono, 2006). Accordingly, individuals holding traditional gender role orientation are suggested to perceive the gender pay gap to a lesser extent than members of those groups who possess egalitarian gender role orientation.

To sum up, in this subsection, I have discussed whether and to what extent individuals and employees perceive gender inequality and the gender pay gap to exist. I also depicted factors which might be related to their perceptions. I will turn to the question of how male and female employees react to pay inequity in the following subsection.

2.5. Reactions to pay inequity

Previous studies have come to somewhat inconsistent conclusions regarding the question of how male and female employees react to pay differences (Graham and Welbourne, 1999). The gender literature has also been puzzled with the question of why, even though female employees tend to earn less than their comparable male counterparts, they continue to be committed to their organizations to the same or even higher degree than their male colleagues (Balkin and Gomez-Mejia, 2002; Clark, 1997; Crosby, 1982; Jackson and Grabski, 1988).

Several social psychological explanations have been offered to explain this tendency. First of all, social comparison theory (Festinger, 1954) explains how individuals evaluate their own opinions and outcomes by comparing themselves with others. Individuals look to the images described by others and subsequently make comparisons among themselves, others, and idealized images. The theory proposes that men and women have a tendency to use different pay comparisons than men so that women are likely to compare their rewards with the rewards of other female employees who have similar education, tenure, and other factors,