# 2

health care services (e.g., Navaneetham and Dharmalingam, 2002). In some countries, abortions are still forbidden and many women are forced to raise children they do not want to have (e.g., Hedayat, Shooshtarizadeh and Raza, 2006). Gender inequality can also disadvantage men. It is mainly men who do the most dangerous and heavy work such as firefighting, policing, rescuing, and building construction (e.g., Sen, 2001).

1.2. Outlining research gaps

A growing awareness of gender inequality as well as a conviction that it should be eliminated has produced many studies aiming at uncovering its reasons (Acker, 2006a; Kanter, 1977; Neff, Cooper and Woodruff, 2007; Reskin, 2003; Sen, 1992; Teigen and Wängnerud, 2009). Much less attention has been given to the subjective dimension of how individuals perceive gender inequality and the gender pay gap. Examining whether and to what extent people perceive gender inequality to exist can help answering the question of why gender inequality persists. It can also be a step towards overcoming it because the more knowledge people gain about the phenomenon, the more power and courage they have to act against it.

A set of studies has aimed at examining the invisibility of inequality, defined as ‘the degree of awareness of inequality’ (Acker, 2006a: 452). Several studies have demonstrated that people vary considerably in their perceptions of gender inequality (Blackaby, Booth and Frank, 2005; Lange, 2008). For instance, Acker (2006a) argued that people generally see inequality as existing somewhere else, not where they are. According to her, gender inequality tends to ‘disappear’ among organizational members or is seen as something that does not exist in concrete organizations (Acker, 2006a).

In earlier research, several factors have been found to influence the way people perceive gender inequality. First of all, based on the gender socialization perspective, Smith and Rogers (2000) came to the conclusion that men and women tend to regard their workplaces with different attitudes and expectations and, thus, may perceive gender inequality differently. Furthermore, Verloo and Lombardo (2007) argued that the social context in which the concept of gender inequality is located can have an impact on the way gender inequality is recognized. However, a range of factors beyond gender and social environment are likely to be related to the way people perceive gender inequality. More theoretical and empirical work is needed to shed light on the question of how individuals understand the phenomenon of gender inequality, how they experience it, and why they perceive it differently across organizations, industries, and countries.

People’s perceptions of gender inequality may also vary considerably depending on whether we examine workplace or societal gender inequality. For example, in her early study, Acker (1991) found that bank managers intentionally hide some forms of inequality, while bank workers were not eager to discuss inequality in terms of pay since they had strong feelings that their pay was part of their identity. Similarly, in the fieldwork carried out by Korvajärvi (1998) in Finland, an example given by a secretary illustrated perceptions of distant inequality in society and close-at-hand workplace equality. According to the secretary, inequality in her working life did not exist, this was impossible. However, at the same time, the secretary confessed that the situation for women as a whole was different and