data/clean/file_1__chunk0125.md, before:

## 3.1. Survey technique and quantitative method

A methodology is a theory of how research is done or should be carried out (Harding, 1987). It responds to ontological and epistemological assumptions of the research. A method is a technique for gathering evidence (Harding, 1987). In terms of methodology, a positivist approach is employed in this thesis. In terms of method, survey technique, and quantitative research analysis are applied in this thesis.

Some scholars consider that by applying quantitative methods, researchers count people as numbers and neglect contextualized lives in which they live (e.g., Marecek, Fine and Kidder, 1997). However, in my opinion, quantitative method may provide an opportunity to conduct the research in a convincing and influential manner for both gender and nongender researchers as well as to communicate gender related issues to the general audience in a simple, easily comprehensive way. In addition, this thesis aims at exploring whether and to what extent gender inequality and the gender pay gap are perceived by Finnish individuals and employees to exist. Previous Gender Equality Barometers (Melkas, 1999, 2002, 2005) have shown that the Finnish women perceive gender inequality more than men. I aim at enlarging these results by studying magnitude/extent to which women, in general, and female employees, in particular, perceive gender inequality in comparison with men in general and male and female employees in particular. This may result in some additional policy recommendation directing towards advancement of male and female employees.

One of the objectives of the thesis is to identify factors associated with the way individuals and employees perceive gender inequality and the gender pay gap. Quantitative methods are known to be helpful in measuring the experiences and perceptions of large numbers of individuals (Miner-Rubino and Jayaratne, 2007). These methods are helpful in identifying relationships that may be difficult to find when using other research methods. Further, since

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/file_1__chunk0125.md, after:

---
source_path: file_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 65b52d41b4a8bad80b4cfcccd9816c8155726e08
title: file_1
---
# 3 METHODS

In the previous chapter, I explained why this thesis is mainly based on the ideas of liberal feminist theory. I also described individuals’ and employees’ perceptions of gender inequality and the gender pay gap and factors, which might have an impact on those perceptions. I concluded the chapter by illustrating why male and female employees may react differently to pay inequity.

I start this chapter by explaining why survey technique and quantitative methods were chosen for this thesis. I then proceed to the description of the data. The thesis consists of four papers. Two of them are based on the data of the Finnish Gender Equality Barometer 2008, which were conducted by the Finnish Ministry of Social Affairs and Health together with Statistics Finland. I will here describe validity, reliability, and the construction of the key variables of this unique data set. My third paper is conceptual. The last thesis paper is based on Finnish university, which were collected by Aino Tenhiälä (previously Salimäki) through web-based questionnaires in February 2007. Validity, reliability, and the design of the main variables of these sets of data are described in the last subsection of the methods chapter.
