data/clean/file_1__chunk0344.md, before:

# 78

inequality. However, it could also be the other way around. Those employees, who perceive the existence of workplace gender inequality, might consider themselves as not possessing a bargaining advantage (Barron, 2003; Kray, Thompson and Galinsky, 2001) or might believe that they have to work harder in order to be financially promoted, and, thus, they might be less likely to request a pay increase. Also, employees who accept their underprivileged status in organizations might be less likely to ask for pay increases than those employees, who are not exposed to gender inequality and thus do not accept it (Lockwood, 1986).

Although most of the previously mentioned findings were rather predictable and expected, the finding that lower-level white-collar employees and ordinary workers perceived workplace gender inequality to a greater extent than employees in supervisory or management positions as well as upper-level white-collar employees was rather surprising. The potential exists for employees in lower-level positions to acknowledge their lack of privilege and for employees in upper-level positions to obtain better treatment (Rosette and Thompson, 2005). That might be the reason why employees in upper-level positions are less conscious of workplace gender inequality than employees in lower-level positions. Similarly, the structural model of organizational behaviour (Kanter, 1977) suggests that a position in the organizational hierarchy influences employees’ behaviour and perceptions. According to the model, employees in lower-level positions may attribute their disadvantages at work to structural factors and, thus, be more conscious of gender inequality. In contrast, employees in upper-level positions might look for ways to maintain their power and be less likely to perceive the existence of social inequalities, including gender inequality.

On the one hand, this finding suggests that employees in higher hierarchical positions, who are thus privileged in organizations, may be least likely to perceive the existence of workplace gender inequality. Employees, who possess higher-level hierarchical positions, might also be responsible for creating and/or dealing with gender inequality. It can be in their own interest not to perceive the existence of gender inequality in their organizations.

Another explanation on how employment position may determine the way employees perceive workplace gender inequality lies in the glass ceiling phenomenon. Male and female employees enter the labour force in equal numbers. However, the majority of upper-level positions are primarily occupied by male employees. The tendency that male employees in general perceive workplace gender inequality to a lesser extent than female employees, and that male employees are mostly the ones who occupy upper-level positions might explain why employees in upper-level positions are less conscious of workplace gender inequality than employees in lower-level positions. I did a post hoc interaction analysis to analyze whether gender moderated relationships between employment position and employees’ perceptions of workplace gender inequality. However, this interaction was not supported empirically15. Therefore, despite the glass ceiling phenomenon, it appears that both male and female employees tend to perceive workplace gender inequality to a lesser extent when they are in higher hierarchical positions than when they are in lower hierarchical positions.

The fact that gender inequality is perceived by employees in higher-level hierarchical positions as existing somewhere else, but not in their workplace, drives to its continuous

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/file_1__chunk0344.md, after:

---
source_path: file_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ef523f0184edeadf52bf82013782625d4ed42659
title: file_1
---
# 77

perceptions of both (a) societal and (b) workplace gender inequality, are presented. The model was tested drawing on the data of the Finnish Gender Equality Barometer 2008.

Several findings of the study are worth mentioning. Firstly, male and female employees differ in their perceptions of both societal and workplace gender inequality in a way that female employees perceive both types of gender inequality to a greater extent than their male counterparts. This is somewhat obvious and is in line with the gender socialization perspective (Stockard, 1999), which claims that women in general hold different values than men so that men and women differ in their perceptions.

Secondly, the finding that older employees perceive both types of gender inequality to a greater extent than their younger colleagues is in line with the anticipatory injustice model (Shapiro and Kirkman, 2001). According to the model, people’s perceptions match their schemata, which are based on their prior experience. The older an employee is, the more experience he/she obtains, the more is the likelihood that he/she has experienced injustice and thus continually sees it.

Thirdly, the finding that employees with full-time contracts perceive workplace gender inequality to a greater extent than employees with part-time contracts might be explained with occupational socialization theory (Smith and Rogers, 2000), according to which employees are socialized within work environment through training, organizational culture, and workplace rewards. Employees with full-time contracts socialize more within their work environments and, thus, hear more about possible cases that related to gender inequality than employees with part-time contracts. Furthermore, although there is empirical evidence that fixed-term and part-time employees encounter more discrimination than employees with permanent and full-time contracts (e.g., Husu, 2005), the present study suggests that employees with full-time contracts are likely to have more experience, hear more often about the cases of gender discrimination and, thus, are more conscious of workplace gender inequality than employees who have part-time employment contracts.

Next, it is noteworthy that employees whose employers’ attitude towards taking family leave for male employees is more positive, perceived both societal and workplace gender inequality to a lesser extent than employees whose employers’ attitude towards taking family leave for male employees is less positive. It goes along with role-balance theory (Marks and MacDermid, 1996). According to the theory, when people achieve a balance between their various roles, so that both mothers and fathers are encouraged to take a family leave, perceptions of gender inequality decrease.

Furthermore, although requests for pay increase were not hypothesized to have an impact on employees’ perceptions of workplace gender inequality (included as a control variable), they were significantly associated with employees’ perceptions of workplace gender inequality. The results showed that employees, who requested a pay increase, perceived workplace gender inequality to a greater extent than those employees who did not request any pay increases. It might be so that employees, who did not request pay increases, had fewer chances to be rejected and relate this rejection to possible social inequalities, including gender inequality. In contrast, employees, who felt justified in asking for pay increase, had more chances to be rejected and relate the rejection to social inequalities, including gender
