# Measures

‘Perceptions of Societal Gender Inequality’ were measured by a two-item index. While the first item measures status of men and women in society, the second one measures their opportunities. Correlation between the items was significant at the 0.01 level .404** (2- tailed). Firstly, respondents were asked (a) if we assess quite generally the status of men and women in Finland today, which of the following statements best corresponds to your own view. Response categories for the item were (1) the status of men in society is on average clearly higher than that of women; (2) the status of men in society is on average slightly higher than that of women; and (3) men and women are equal. Secondly, the respondents were asked whether (b) women’s opportunities in working life are as good as men’s. Response categories for the item were from 1 = fully agree to 4 = fully disagree .

‘Perceptions of Workplace Gender Inequality’ were measured by a one-item index. This item measures both status and opportunities of men and women in their workplaces in one question. Respondents were asked ‘is gender equality realized at your workplace?’ Response categories were from 1 = very well to 5 = very badly.

While the first dependent variable is measured by a two-item scale, and the second one by a one-item scale, both variables are comparable and parallel. They both observe status and opportunities of Finnish employees related to gender inequality. While the first variable measures the items at a general societal level, the second one measures the same items at an internal workplace level. Since the scales for the dependent variables were different, they were standardized.

Individual factors were measured by the following variables: gender – a dummy variable coded 1 for male employees and 0 for female ones. Age – measured in years starting from 17 to 67. Marital status – a dummy variable coded 1 for married, cohabiting or in registered partnership employees, and 0 for unmarried, divorced, separated, and widowed ones. Education – a dummy variable coded 1 for employees with basic or secondary, and 0 for employees with high education. Living area – a dummy variable coded 1 for employees living in urban areas, and 0 for those living in rural areas. Sexual harassment – measured by a four-item index. Respondents were asked whether during the last two years a representative of the opposite sex (a) made inappropriate remarks regarding their body or sexuality, (b) proposed sexual relations in an improper context, (c) told dirty jokes or spoken in an indecent manner which you considered offensive, and (d) made physical advances towards them in an undesired manner. Response categories were 1 = yes and 2 = no. The alpha coefficient was .84. Psychological harassment – measured by a six-item index. Respondents were asked whether there are any members of the opposite sex (a) at their workplace; (b) in organizations or associations they belong to; (c) among relatives; (d) among neighbors; (e) in their hobby environments; and (f) in some other circle of friends, who, at least sometimes, take a patronizing or disparaging attitude towards respondents’ comments and suggestions. Response categories were from 1 = no to 4 = several. The alpha coefficient was .68.