# 120

expectations for others based on the knowledge of other employees with similar pay (Balkin and Gomez-Mejia, 2002).

Empirical evidence suggests that female employees tend to have lower pay expectations than their male colleagues. Sweeny and McFarlin (1997) have demonstrated that women tend to under-reward themselves and act more generously toward their co- workers than do their male counterparts. Keaveny and Inderrieden (2000) have found also that female employees continue to report that they deserve lower levels of pay than their male counterparts. Furthermore, Gerhart and Rynes (2003) have proposed that many female employees consistently perceive lower amounts of pay as fair than their male counterparts. Both Heckert et al. (2002) and Keaveny et al. (2007) have showed that female employees have lower pay expectations than their male counterparts at both career-entry and career peak, even after taking into account their length of career and other career-related factors. Accordingly, in line with social comparison theory, we propose that although female employees are often under-rewarded, they tend to be less sensitive towards pay inequity than their male counterparts due to different pay comparisons.

Hypothesis 1: gender moderates the relationship between pay inequity and organizational commitment such that the relationship is stronger for male than for female employees.

Another explanation to gender differences in reactions to injustice comes from the gender socialization perspective. Men and women act the way they do in part because of gender socialization (Parsons and Bales, 1956). Several theories including social learning, gender schema, and psychoanalytic theories have attempted to clarify the process of gender socialization (Stockard, 1999). All these theories share the assumption that gender socialization leads to a construction of a society where individuals are put into certain social roles. Based on the gender socialization, men and women receive positive reinforcement when they behave in ways ‘appropriate’ to their gender while receiving negative reinforcement for behaving like the opposite gender (Smith and Rogers, 2000). Furthermore, due to gender socialization, men and women obtain differential roles and positions in organizations. So, by following social conventions, men and women are socialized to perceive procedural justice differently. The same treatment is perceived as fair by one gender and as unequally by the other based on how one is socialized (Ngo, Foley, Wong and Loi, 2003). Consistent with the gender socialization perspective, we expect men and women to differ considerably in their reactions to perceptions of procedural justice. Since male employees tend to be more outcome-oriented and female employees more process-oriented, female employees are suggested to show a stronger reaction to procedural injustice by demonstrating lower levels of organizational commitment.

Hypothesis 2: gender moderates the relationship between procedural justice and organizational commitment such that the relationship is stronger for female than for male employees.