# 3

determined by family circumstances. Accordingly, while from the words of a secretary her own position was entirely up to herself, the situation for women as a whole in Finnish society was different (Korvajärvi, 1998). Both Ely and Meyerson (2000) and Korvajärvi (2003) also explored the ‘disappearance’ of gender inequality by examining the role of gender in organizations.

Although the argumentation of the above-mentioned scholars is well grounded and empirically supported, more investigation is required to broaden our knowledge about the perceived distant gender inequality in society and perceived close-at-hand gender equality in one’s own working place. How perceptions of societal gender inequality and workplace gender inequality are interrelated is a subject in need of more analysis.

One of the main elements of gender inequality, the gender pay gap, has received considerable attention by scholars all around the world (Blau and Kahn, 2006; Groshen, 1991; Hannan et al., 1990). However, several researchers documented that their respondents did not perceive the existence of a gender pay gap, even when the gap could be clearly demonstrated from statistical sources (Hill and Silva, 2005, Jackson and Grabski, 1988; Jamali, Sidani and Kobeissi, 2008; Judge and Livingston, 2008; Lange, 2008). Empirical research has suggested that women tend not to perceive the pay gap, due to differences in preferences (Hakim, 2000; Major and Konar, 1984), females’ sense of acceptance of pay inequity in job rewards (Peng, Ngo, Shi and Wong, 2009), differences in pay and benefit negotiations (Gerhart and Rynes, 1991; Kray, Thompson and Galinsky, 2001; Stuhlmacher and Walters, 1999), and differences in pay expectations (Balkin and Gomez-Mejia, 2002; Heckert, Droste, Adams, Griffin, Roberts, Mueller, and Wallis, 2002; Keaveny and Inderrieden, 2000; Keaveny, Inerrieden and Toumanoff, 2007; Major and Konar, 1984). Alternatively, while Crosby (1982) referred to the tendency of female employees to be subjectively satisfied with their salary in spite of objective underpayment as ‘the paradox of the contented female worker’, Jackson and Grabski (1988: 623) proposed that women may ‘restore psychological equity in the face of actual inequalities, which they may view as beyond their power to redress’. Furthermore, Nie, Hopkins and Hopkins (2002) suggested that the differences in rewards are relatively small between male and female employees, so that they do not perceive conditions of unfairness. Finally, Lange (2008) argued that the gender pay gap might not be perceived as such if it does not match a gender discrimination stereotype.

As we can see, a number of competing explanations have been proposed for the perceptions of the gender pay gap. However, further theoretical and empirical work is required to analyze whether and to what extent the gender pay gap is perceived to exist and to explore the whole range of factors that may influence its perceptions.

Individuals who perceive to be under-rewarded (i.e., pay inequity) tend to experience negative emotional reactions, such as job dissatisfaction, distress (Fields, Pang and Chiu, 2000), reduced well-being and respect for their jobs (Tepper, 2001), and emotional exhaustion (van Dierendonck, Schaufeli and Buunk, 2001). In addition, pay inequity can result in feelings of anger, powerlessness, increased intentions to quit the job, and decreased organizational commitment (Huseman, Hatfield and Miles, 1987; Stone-Romero and Stone, 2005).