# 6

industrial economy with an emphasis on information technology field. The rapid Finnish modernization had consequences for its gender system. Women’s traditional productive work was integrated into full-time employment in labour market. Women’s educational level and participation in politics increased. Up to the 1960s, Finland ranked highly in terms of the representation of women at the parliamentary level (Dahlerup, 1990). Finnish women became active agents in the construction of the welfare state (Rantalaiho, 1997). Many social, healthcare, maternity, and childcare benefits were introduced at that time.

Already in the 1960s and 1970s, the movement of Finnish women provided new ideas about gender roles and gender equality. It was often linked with left-wing ideology (Holli, 2003). Gender equality was promoted by encouraging women to enter jobs which were considered a male prerogative (Holli, 2003).

The Finnish Collective Agreements Act was extended to the public sector in 19701. According to the Finnish collective bargaining system, there has been a national inter-sectoral agreements negotiated between the government, the central trade union confederations, and the employer’s organizations. They have covered a wide range of economic and social issues as well as setting a framework for the collective bargaining in different sectors. While sectoral agreements continue to determine the main pay and conditions for most workers, nowadays there is a trend towards more individualized pay determination based on specific job requirements and performance (for further information, see Kekäle, 2008).

Another factor which contributed to the promotion of gender equality was the introduction of the Finnish Equality Act of 1986 (8.8.1986/609), which made gender discrimination more visible (Husu, 2001). According to the Act, those who suspected gender discrimination had the right to make a formal complaint and take the case to the court.

In 1995 quotas of giving access to more women into the Finnish public government committees were introduced. Rather than changing the power relationships between men and women, the promotion of gender equality through the introduction of quotas aimed at benefiting the society as a whole, not individual men or women (Raevaara, 2008). Quotas stabilized participation of men and women in politics. It was considered that, in the future, Finland would reach the stage where quotas would not be necessary.

The Finnish Equality Act of 1986 was reformed in 1995. The Amended Gender Equality Act of 1995 (206/1995) implied new restrictions for employers. For instance, if the staff of a company was thirty or more in number, an annual personnel and training plan had to include measures of advancing equality between male and female employees. Another section of the Act claimed that an employee representative at the workplace had an independent right of access to information on the salaries and the employment relationship of employees. The Act also prohibited discrimination on the basis of pregnancy and parenthood in both permanent and short-term forms of contracts. Furthermore, according to the Act, it was the employer’s duty to ensure that employees were not subjected to sexual harassment and to provide them with working conditions that reinforced the reconciliation