# INTRODUCTION

For some time, gender pay inequalities have been one of the most intensively researched topics in social science (Hill and Silva, 2005; Rubery, Grimshaw and Figueiredo, 2005). A discussion has circulated around the gender pay gap, which is also known as the “gender wage gap”, the “gender gap in earnings” or “male-female income disparity”. The gender pay gap refers commonly to the difference in average hourly earnings of male and female employees after controlling for human capital factors such as education and tenure (adapted from various papers of Blau and Kahn; see, for instance, Blau and Kahn, 2006). The topic of the gender pay gap has attracted a diverse set of literatures, including economics (e.g., Blau and Kahn, 2006; Groshen, 1991), sociology (e.g., Hannan, Schomann and Blossfeld, 1990), psychology (e.g., Stroh, Brett and Reilly, 1992), and human resource management (e.g., Heneman, 1985). The issue has also attracted the attention of the European Commission, the US government as well as the general populate of many other countries.

The existence of the gender pay gap almost all over the world has generated the need to better understand various factors contributing to it (Blau and Kahn, 2006; Rubery et al., 2005). Auster (1989) grouped the main explanations of the gender pay gap into two main categories: macro level, where women are seen as a homogeneous group, and micro level, which concentrates on psychological approaches viewing women as a heterogeneous diverse group. At the macro level the focus is on economic theories, which provide explanations of the phenomenon based on such factors as differences in education, work experience, amount of starting salary as well as general explanations such as different types of discrimination (e.g., Grybaite, 2006; Keaveny, Inderrieden and Toumanoff, 2007; Mitra, 2002). Micro level explanations of the gender pay gap include such personal factors as individual preferences and forces, which change values and attitudes towards working conditions and compensation practices (e.g., Bren and Garcia-Penalosa 2002; Hakim, 2000; Giapponi and McEvoy, 2006).

Although the gender pay gap exists almost all over the world (e.g., Corporate Gender Gap Report, 2010), study after study demonstrated that many individuals did not perceive its existence (Blackaby, Booth and Frank, 2005; Lange, 2008). Several scholars documented that their sampled respondents did not perceive the existence of the gender pay gap even when the gap was statistically determined (Jackson and Grabski, 1988; Jamali, Sidani and Kobeissi, 2008; Lange, 2008).

In contrast, in order to discover the attitudes of Europeans towards the gender pay gap, the European Commission launched a two phase European-wide communication campaign on the gender pay gap in 2009. A recent study conducted by the Eurobarometer (2009), based on this commission, found that around half of Europeans consider the gender pay gap as one of the priorities for action in the field of gender equality. Moreover, around 82% of Europeans thought that the issue of the gender pay gap should be addressed urgently.