---
source_path: file_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1114d563cfb1d99d6afe877f825eac13641998b8
title: file_1
---
# 121

In line with gender socialization, Powell and Mainiero (1992) have argued that female employees may lack access to informal communication networks that their male colleagues often possess to obtain knowledge about pay including pay raises, bonuses, and promotions. Female employees are thus likely to rely mainly on formal procedures and mechanisms. Furthermore, Sweeny and McFarlin (1997) have proposed that female employees tend to be socialized to be more sensitive to and interested in relationships with co-workers than male employees. According to these scholars, female employees are likely to rely more on formal procedures and systems to obtain organizational outcomes due to a history of gender discrimination and sex-role stereotyping that has excluded them from fair decision-making process. Furthermore, both Sweeny and McFarlin (1997) and Lee and Farh (1999) have suggested that male employees have been socialized to achieve satisfaction from outcomes such as pay and knowledge about it, while female employees have been socialized to achieve satisfaction from the process of interacting and the procedural system in general rather than being keen on the knowledge of pay.

To sum up our argumentation based on both social comparison theory and the gender socialization perspective, men and women are motivated to compare with similar others based on external and internal targets, where internal targets refer to a comparison with a similar one inside of the organization and external targets refer to a comparison with a similar one in a different organization (e.g. Greenberg, 1990; Sweeney and McFarlin, 2004). In line with the gender socialization perspective, we propose that although female employees are often under-rewarded, they tend to be less sensitive towards pay inequity than their male counterparts due to different pay comparisons. This tendency occurs since male employees are more likely to compare themselves with other colleagues working in similar positions outside the organization. In addition, consistent with gender socialization perspective, we suggest that men and women differ considerably in their reactions to perceptions of procedural justice. Male employees are expected to be less sensitive towards procedural justice than female employees in part due to their higher level of obtained knowledge about pay of others. Based on the above, we expect:

Hypothesis 3: the interactive effect of gender and pay inequity/procedural justice on organizational commitment is mediated by (a) pay comparison and (b) access to pay information.
