# INTRODUCTION

Gender inequality has been an intensively researched topic in social science. Various studies were produced aiming at finding the reasons for gender inequality (e.g., Acker, 2006a; Kanter, 1977; Neff, Cooper and Woodruff, 2007; Reskin, 2003; Sen, 1995; Teigen and Wängnerud, 2009). However, much less attention has been given to its subjective dimension, which concerns how individuals with various backgrounds perceive gender inequality. Examining the way people perceive gender inequality can help answering the question of why gender inequality persists and how to overcome it because the more knowledge people gain about the phenomenon, the more courage they have to act against it.

Several studies have examined individuals’ perceptions of gender inequality. In her study, Gilligan (1982) came to the conclusion that individuals interpret and perceive various phenomena including the phenomenon of gender inequality differently based on their social relationships. Davis and Robinson (1991) suggested a model which explained individuals’ perceptions of gender inequality applying data from the USA, the UK, Germany, and Austria. Building on research on collective relative deprivation, Gutek, Cohen, and Tsui (1996) examined psychologists’ and managers’ perceptions of sex discrimination. Furthermore, Rotundo, Nguyen, and Sackett (2001) reported a meta-analysis of 62 studies of gender differences in perceptions of harassment. Finally, Ngo, Foley, Wong, and Loi (2003) examined the relationship between individual and organizational level variables and the perceived gender inequity. Yet, none of the studies examined whether people with different occupational statuses vary in their perceptions of gender inequality.

This study broadens the domain of gender inequality research by analyzing perceptions of three particular groups of individuals: students, employed people, and retired people. It is particularly important to study whether these groups of individuals significantly vary in their perceptions of overall gender inequality. Finding differences in perceptions of these groups