# 50

In “liberal” and “social democratic” welfare states such indicators of gender equality as women's participation and representation in the labour force, government and politics are represented to a greater extent than in “corporatist” welfare states. Accordingly, although gender equality is supposed to be higher in “liberal” and “social democratic” welfare states than in “corporatist” welfare states, individuals in “corporatist” welfare states are less likely to be sensitive towards gender inequality because it is considered to be a part of a shared belief that women's job is worth less than men's. Alternatively, members of “liberal” and “social democratic” welfare states, whose practices are more gender egalitarian, are expected to be more sensitive towards gender inequality as that would be an unaccepted practice for them.

The degree of public awareness of gender inequality can also influence individuals’ and employees’ perceptions of gender inequality and the gender pay gap. In order to promote equality and responsiveness in culturally diverse societies, trade union campaigns, societal movements and governments' campaigns are organized (see, for example, campaigns of European Commission12). One of their objectives is to increase public awareness of social inequalities. Another objective is to reduce directly reported, explicit as well as implicit, unconscious gender stereotypes and prejudices at multiple levels, which, in turn, may have an impact on individuals’ perceptions of gender inequality.

If trade union campaigns, societal movements, and governments campaigns are key factors influencing public awareness, then greater awareness is expected to be seen among those individuals who follow those events. In other words, individuals who follow various campaigns are suggested to be more aware of gender inequality, feminist movements, family-friendly policies, and, among other issues, about the existence of gender inequality and the gender pay gap. Furthermore, participants and viewers of such campaigns are expected to possess more support to struggle against gender inequality.

One of the limitations of the thesis is that it includes only those factors which are applied in the Finnish Gender Equality Barometer 2008, while other factors such as, for instance, the type of the welfare regime and the degree of public awareness of inequalities, are not observed in the Barometer 2008. An extensive study that explores perceptions of individuals working in countries with different welfare regimes and with different degrees of public awareness of inequalities may thus confirm the empirical findings of the present thesis. An example of such kind of study could be a comparative research based on the surveys conducted by United Nations Economic Commission for Europe13. These surveys apply common gender inequality indexes across countries and, thus, are applicable for international comparative studies related to the topic of gender inequality.

Next, the consequences of individuals’ and employees’ perceptions of gender inequality and the gender pay gap should be studied in future. Several scholars recognize that perceptions of gender inequality as well as the perceptions of gender pay gap can be important in predicting cognitive and behavioural reactions such as self-esteem, psychological well-being and relationships at work (e.g., Foley, Ngo and Loi, 2006). Employees’ perceptions of gender

12 An example of a campaign is available at: http://ec.europa.eu/justice/gender-equality/gender-pay- gap/index_en.htm 13 Further information available at: http://www.unece.org/