---
source_path: file_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: dbcd847e3f0a99537777a6662871ccc531026575
title: file_1
---
# 28

rather than with those of men. Since women tend to be paid less than men, they are likely to base their outcome explanations on, and evaluate the fairness of their outcomes against, a lower social comparison standard than do men (Major and Konar, 1984).

Differences in pay expectations may also determine why gender plays a crucial role in reactions to pay inequity. According to social comparison theory, individuals with similar attributes and opinions are relevant to each other and are, thus, influential to each other (Suls et al., 2002). This may mean that those individuals who have low pay expectations are expected to compare themselves with those individuals who have similar pay expectations (Jackson and Grabski, 1988). In a similar manner, employees with low pay expectations tend to build their pay expectations for others based on the knowledge of other employees with similar pay (Balkin and Gomez-Mejia, 2002).

Empirical evidence suggests that female employees tend to have lower pay expectations than their male colleagues. Sweeny and McFarlin (1997) demonstrated that women tend to under- reward themselves and act more generously toward their co-workers than do their male counterparts. Keaveny and Inderrieden (2000) found also that female employees continue to report that they deserve lower levels of pay than their male counterparts. Furthermore, Gerhart and Rynes (2003) proposed that many female employees consistently perceive lower amounts of pay as fair than their male counterparts. Both Heckert et al. (2002) and Keaveny et al. (2007) showed that female employees have lower pay expectations than their male counterparts at both career-entry and career peak, even after taking into account their length of career and other career-related factors.

Another explanation to gender differences in reactions to injustice comes from the gender socialization perspective. Men and women act the way they do in part because of gender socialization (Parsons and Bales, 1956). Several theories including social learning, gender schema, and psychoanalytic theories have attempted to clarify the process of gender socialization (Stockard, 1999). All these theories share the assumption that gender socialization leads to a construction of a society where individuals are put into certain social roles. Based on the gender socialization, men and women receive positive reinforcement ‘appropriate’ to their gender while receiving negative when they behave in ways reinforcement for behaving like the opposite gender (Smith and Rogers, 2000). Furthermore, due to gender socialization, men and women obtain differential roles and positions in organizations. The same treatment is perceived as fair by one gender and as unequally by the other based on how one is socialized (Ngo et al., 2003).

In line with gender socialization, Powell and Mainiero (1992) argued that female employees may lack access to informal communication networks that their male colleagues often possess to obtain knowledge about pay including pay raises, bonuses and promotions. Female employees are thus likely to rely mainly on formal procedures and mechanisms. Furthermore, Sweeny and McFarlin (1997) proposed that female employees tend to be socialized to be more sensitive to and interested in relationships with co-workers than male employees. According to these scholars, female employees are likely to rely more on formal procedures and systems to obtain organizational outcomes due to a history of gender discrimination and sex-role stereotyping that has excluded them from fair decision-making process. Furthermore, both Sweeny and McFarlin (1997) and Lee and Farh (1999) suggested
