data/clean/file_1__chunk0115.md, before:

# 24

married individuals as by unmarried ones. Relative deprivation theory claims that a married individual may differ from an unmarried one in the relative value he/she places on various outcomes and characteristics of his/her marriage. According to the theory, while married individuals tend to value stability and harmony in their relationships, unmarried individuals are likely to appreciate more independence and autonomy. In addition, some empirical evidence has shown that married and cohabiting individuals may be less critical towards gender inequality than those who are not married (Cohen and Korchmeyer, 1995; Davis and Robinson, 1991).

In many cases people may believe that female married employees are supported financially by their spouses and this, in turn, may be used to legitimate offering them lower salaries (Winslow-Bowe, 2009). In contrast, male married employees are likely to be given greater responsibility, promotion, relocation opportunity and salary based on the assumption that they have families to care for (Winslow-Bowe, 2009). In other words, if a wife’s salary is believed to be a secondary income and a husband is expected to earn more than a wife, then it is not surprising that both members of a family consider that husband’s salary should be higher than wife’s. Consequently, based on relative deprivation theory, married individuals/employees are suggested to perceive both gender inequality and the gender pay gap to a lesser extent than unmarried ones.

Occupational categorization: occupational socialization theory (Smith and Rogers, 2000) claims that people are socialized within the work environment through training, organizational culture, and workplace rewards. Employed people might thus be more socialized and more conscious of cases where male and female employees are treated differently while performing similarly than, for example, students (Judge and Livingston, 2008; Paul, 2006). In contrast, students tend to have little experience of working life or no data about such cases so they are less likely to be conscious of gender inequality than employees. Based on occupational socialization theory, retired people might be suggested to perceive gender inequality to a greater extent than employed people and students because they have more experience and are more likely to have witnessed or heard about cases, which involve persistence of gender inequality.

Reconciliation of work and family: according to role-balance theory (Marks and MacDermid, 1996), individuals seek full and meaningful experiences in their work and family lives. The theory claims that in order to achieve balance, one should distribute his/her personal resources across all life roles in an ‘even-handed’ fashion, which tends to lead to a more equal engagement in work and family obligations (Carlson and Grzywacz, 2008). Nowadays, many employees face the problem of time reconciliation at both professional and private levels. Since the degree of achievement of gender equality in a workplace depends, among other issues, on the extent to which workplace policies address the issue of reconciliation of work and family (Lewis and Giullari, 2005), reconciliation policies may provide employees with the notion of workplace gender equality. It is thus suggested that the more positive is the concern of the employer towards the reconciliation of work and family, and the better is the employee’s balance between work and family, the less the employee is expected to perceive workplace gender inequality, and vice versa.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/file_1__chunk0115.md, after:

---
source_path: file_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f5aa8a00bbb2a8266973ce967bd8d5da6d378a99
title: file_1
---
# 23

positions outside the organization than women do. Since men tend to be more outcome oriented and women more process oriented, women are expected to perceive the gender pay gap to a lesser extent than men.

Sector gender composition: according to the gender socialization perspective, sector gender composition might also be one of the factors maintaining differential treatment of men and women. While in gender-balanced groups gender-based differences are less salient, in work environments dominated by men or by women, differences between genders become more salient (Gutek and Morasch, 1982; Kanter, 1977). Working in an environment with disproportional representation of women affects women’s gender identity so that gender roles become more stereotypical (Ely, 1995). This statement goes along with the empirical research of Ngo, Foley, Wong and Loi (2003), who claimed that in male/female- concentrated sectors men and women tend to perpetuate their gender-role stereotyping, thus possible cases of unfair treatment become more visible and more discussed. Following this line of argumentation, employees, who are employed in organizations within a male/female- concentrated sector, are suggested to perceive gender inequality to a greater extent than those who are employed in gender-neutral organizations.

A possible explanation of how sector gender composition can influence individuals’ perceptions of the gender pay gap is based on expectancy theory (Vroom, 1964). According to the theory, changes in perception are likely to affect the motivation to perform as well as create feelings of inequality. The theory describes the value of the reward, the performance- reward connection and the performance-effort connection. The value of the reward, financial compensation in this case, appears to have been risen for women recently (Judge and Livingston, 2008). In the past, there was a tendency to undervalue performance-reward connections in female-concentrated sectors. As women started moving into male- concentrated sectors, the performance-reward connection became more comprehensive, but there are still some female-concentrated sectors where the establishment of the performance-reward connection is at the very beginning. The performance-effort connection is also uncertain in many female-concentrated sectors. Many women are reluctant to ask for the salary they are supposed to in female-concentrated sectors and are satisfied with less salary than men (Lange, 2008). Since lower pay is perceived as more reasonable in female- concentrated sectors, individuals in female-concentrated sectors are expected to perceive the gender pay gap to a lesser extent than individuals in male-concentrated sectors.

Age: according to Shapiro’s and Kirkman’s (2001) anticipatory injustice model, people’s perceptions match their schemata, which are based on their prior experience. The older is an individual, the more experience he/she obtains, the more is the likelihood that he/she has experienced injustice and, thus, continually sees it. In contrast, the younger is an individual, the less experience he/she has, the less formed opinions he/she possesses, and the less is the likelihood that he/she will perceive gender inequality. Consequently, age is suggested to have an impact on individuals’ and employees’ perceptions of gender inequality. Older individuals/employees are proposed to perceive gender inequality to a greater extent than younger ones.

Marital status: relative deprivation theory (Crosby, 1982) might be useful in understanding why gender inequality is not necessarily perceived of the same importance by
