# 129

in these organizations, the higher the level of pay inequity, the less committed were the male employees to the organization. This finding suggests that male and female employees react relatively differently to underpayment and overpayment conditions, and thus, gender might act as a boundary condition for equity theory. The main principle of equity theory does not work to the same extent with male and female employees, which goes along with the earlier criticism of equity theory (Carrell and Dittrich, 1978; Huseman et al., 1987). The finding might also indicate that female employees tend not to perceive an income differential in the first place. The study thus provides evidence that female employees react to a lesser extent to pay disparities by continuing to be highly committed towards their organizations. Therefore, despite the belief that Finland has achieved gender equality (Kantola, 2008) and the position of women has improved dramatically there, gender pay disparity still survives even when social policies and programmes (such as a new pay system) are implemented to reduce it.

In line with procedural justice theory, the study showed that generally the higher the level of procedural justice, the more committed employees were to their organizations. Furthermore, the result that procedural justice was more strongly related to organizational commitment for female than male employees is supported by both social comparison theory and the gender socialization perspective. This finding suggests that female employees are socialized to be more sensitive to organizational procedures and systems than to pay itself. Alternatively, female employees may have to count more on procedures and systems to gain organizational outcomes due to a history of discrimination and sex-role stereotyping (Sweeney and McFarlin, 1997).

Based on social comparison theory and the gender socialization perspective, we studied whether pay comparison and access to pay information would explain the interactive effect of gender and pay inequity and/or procedural justice on organizational commitment. The results suggested that both pay comparison and access to pay information partially mediated the interactive impact of gender and pay inequity (but justice) on organizational commitment. Following the gender not procedural socialization perspective, female employees are less likely to know about some of pay and related issues. In contrast, male employees are likely to be concerned about their dominant position and existing privileges in organizations, they are particularly sensitive to being treated financially fair. As Peng et al. (2009) have suggested, when these concerns are not met, male employees tend to have a lower level of commitment to the organization than female employees do.