---
source_path: file_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4db234489c04f9abe8a5c19c6ab2b9bd927a7846
title: file_1
---
# 118

1995; Malatesta and Byrne, 1997; McFarlin and Sweeney, 1992; Schweiger and Sapienza, 1995; Sweeney and McFarlin, 1993).

Accordingly, based on evidence supporting equity and procedural justice theories, both pay inequity and perceptions of procedural injustice are related to lower levels of organizational commitment. However, studies that have explored whether these relationships vary by gender have come to contradictory results. Female employees tend to earn less than their comparable male counterparts, controlling for both supply- and demand-factors (Corporate Gender Gap Report, 2010). Thus, generally an imbalance between input and output exists among female employees, compared to male employees. Female employees are more likely to question the equity of pay than their male colleagues because, in many cases, female employees are subjected to unequal treatment (Graham and Welbourne, 1999). As a result, female employees would be less satisfied with their salaries and less committed towards their organizations than their male counterparts. Despite the intuitive logic of this assumption, not many studies support it (Nie, Hopkins and Hopkins, 2002).

In contrast, most empirical research demonstrates that female employees are less sensitive towards pay inequity due to differences in preferences (Major and Konar, 1984), females’ sense of acceptance of pay inequity in job rewards (Peng, Ngo, Shi and Wong, 2009), differences in pay and benefit negotiations (Gerhart and Rynes, 1991; Kray, Thompson and Galinsky, 2001; Stuhlmacher and Walters, 1999), and differences in pay expectations (Balkin and Gomez-Mejia, 2002; Heckert, Droste, Adams, Griffin, Roberts, Mueller and Wallis, 2002; Keaveny and Inderrieden, 2000; Keaveny, Inerrieden and Toumanoff, 2007; Major and Konar, 1984). Alternatively, Nie et al. (2002) have proposed that the differences in rewards might be so small between male and female employees that they do not perceive conditions for unfairness. Lange (2008) has argued that statistically detected pay inequity might not be perceived as such if it does not match gender pay disparity stereotype and, therefore, many female employees are not aware of it or accept it by considering other aspects of work as more important. Furthermore, while Crosby (1982) has referred to the tendency of female employees to be subjectively satisfied with their salary in spite of objective underpayment as ‘the paradox of the contented female worker’, Jackson and Grabski (1988: 623) have proposed that females may “restore psychological equity in the face of actual inequalities, which they may view as beyond their power to redress.”

Further, there is evidence that while male employees tend to focus on distributive justice, female employees tend to be more interested in procedural justice (Major and Adams, 1983; Major and Deaux, 1982; Sweeney and McFarlin, 1997). Scholars have concluded that this tendency occurs because women are more likely to rely on fair procedural justice in order to maintain their sense of organizational justice. Yet, there is little research that would have examined whether men and women are affected differently by procedural justice. Exceptions include the study of Sweeney and McFarlin (1997), who have found that the relationships between procedural justice and various organizational outcome variables were stronger for women than for men. Further, Lee
