data/clean/file_1__chunk0390.md, before:

# 91

Hypothesis 3: there is a negative relationship between marriage and individuals’ perceptions of overall gender inequality.

Education may also have an influence on the way individuals perceive overall gender inequality. Individuals with high education might be more critical towards the traditional labour distribution where women’ work is considered to be less valuable than men’s. This tendency may occur since highly educated individuals are likely to build their attitudes on the basis of evidence they come across rather than on historical and traditional norms (Judge and Livingston, 2008). Individuals with high education are thus suggested to be more aware of overall gender inequality than individuals with lower education (Davis and Robinson, 1991). Education is hypothesized to be related to individuals’ perceptions of overall gender inequality so that individuals with high education will perceive overall gender inequality to a greater extent than individuals with lower education.

Hypothesis 4: there is a positive relationship between education and individuals’ perceptions of overall gender inequality.

Place of living might also be related to the way people perceive overall gender inequality. According to Shunfeng and Aimin (2006), in many rural areas, the work of women is considered to be ‘unskilled’ and the work of men is thought to be ‘skilled’ even if the tasks require similar and equal skills. Women are thus perceived as having lesser ability or commitment leading to a situation where men get better salary and treatment than women with similar abilities. According to these scholars, home-based and unwaged work done by women is often undervalued in rural areas, while work of men is more noticeable in terms of monetary and physical terms. Gender inequality is suggested to persist more in rural areas rather than in urban ones. I therefore propose that individuals living in rural areas will perceive overall gender inequality to a greater extent than individuals living in urban areas.

Hypothesis 5: there is a positive relationship between living in rural area and individuals’ perceptions of overall gender inequality.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/file_1__chunk0390.md, after:

---
source_path: file_1.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: cc41c8ba93f73ce2a48a4570070196456535d337
title: file_1
---
# 90

Perceptions of individuals with different occupations may vary considerably. Work outside home may provide both men and women with a direct or indirect experience of gender inequality in earnings, promotion, and work conditions that are not faced by people who are not currently employed (Davis and Robinson, 1991).

Occupational socialization theory (Smith and Rogers, 2000) claims that employed people are socialized within work environment through training, organizational culture, and workplace rewards. Therefore, employed people might be more socialized and more conscious of the cases where men and women are treated differently while performing similarly than, for example, students (Judge and Livingston, 2008; Paul, 2006). Employed people might receive more information about gender inequality faced by others or by themselves in the labor market that increases their awareness of gender inequality (Davis and Robinson, 1991). In contrast, students might have little or no data about such cases. They are thus less likely to be conscious of overall gender inequality than employed people.

Do retired people perceive overall gender inequality to a greater or lesser extent than students and employed individuals? On the one hand, based on occupational socialization theory, retired people might be suggested to perceive overall gender inequality to a greater extent than students and employed people because they have more experience and are more likely to have witnessed or heard about cases, which involve persistence of gender inequality. On the other hand, Davis and Robinson (1991: 73) provided a conceivable explanation for why this might not be the case for retired people and why the dimension of occupational categorization may prevail the dimension of age. These scholars argued that retired people may see gender inequality as meritocratic in a way that it is a result of gender differences in talent, effort, and educational diplomas rather than a result of gender discrimination. Accordingly, gender inequality is likely to be justified for retired people. They thus might unconsciously accept its existence.

In general, based on occupational socialization theory, which states that people who are currently employed are more socialized and, thus, are more sensitive towards overall gender inequality than students, employed people are hypothesized to perceive overall gender inequality to a greater extent than students. Since retired people may be more socialized than students and employed people, they are also expected to perceive overall gender inequality to a greater extent than students.

Hypothesis 2: there is a positive relationship between being employed or retired and individuals’ perceptions of overall gender inequality.

According to relative deprivation theory (Crosby, 1982), a married individual may differ from an unmarried one in the relative value he/she places on various outcomes and characteristics of his/her marriage. The theory claims that while married individuals tend to value stability and harmony in their relationships, unmarried individuals are likely to appreciate independence and autonomy. In addition, some empirical studies showed that married and cohabiting individuals were less critical towards gender inequality than those who were not married or cohabiting (Cohen and Korchmeyer, 1995; Davis and Robinson, 1991). Based on relative deprivation theory, I thus propose that married individuals are less likely to perceive higher levels of overall gender inequality than unmarried ones.
