# impact on

A second implication is specifically directed to female employees. The results of the thesis show that some female employees continue to be underpaid. Female employees should thus keep in mind how to negotiate their salaries, ask for a higher salary than originally intended, focus on the reasons they are entitled to a certain salary, and even attend special training to learn how to demand a higher salary. Female employees should be aware of the gender pay gap and try their best not to accept such situations in the workplaces. Transparency of pay may lead to an increased perception among female employees of their monetary worth and of their bargaining advantage (Barron, 2003; Kray et al., 2001).

Thirdly, far more employees realize that there are problems related to gender inequality in the Finnish society as a whole, but tend not to perceive the existence of the same problem in their own lives. This finding leads to some skepticism concerning current Finnish gender- awareness programmes and policies promoting equality. How can organizational members support efforts to diminish gender inequality when they recognize its existence only ‘somewhere’ else’, but not in their own environments, in their own workplaces, and in their own lives? Apart from gender equality planning and obligations in workplaces, policy makers should continue to struggle against employers’ and employees’ insensitivity, fear, and ignorance of gender inequality issues. Gender awareness programmes should continue to persuade both employers and employees that gender inequality is an issue which concerns each of them and each of them is responsible for solving the problem. One of the suggestions