## 5.1.1. Gender inequality and its perceptions

The first objective of the thesis was to analyze whether and to what extent individuals and employees perceive gender inequality to exist in their own workplace and in society. This objective was addressed in the first two papers.

The first paper showed that far more employees perceived gender inequality in the society in general rather than in their own workplaces, which means that while employees realize that there are problems in Finnish society concerning gender inequality as a whole, they tend not to perceive the existence of this very problem in their own workplaces. This finding goes along with the statement of Jackson and Grabski (1988: 623) that employees may ‘restore psychological equity in the face of actual inequities, which they may view as beyond their power to redress’. It also supports the argumentation of Acker (2006a: 452) that since the practices that maintain workplace gender equality are perceived as ‘something that is beside the point of the organization’, they are difficult to see.

The thesis thus provides new evidence that there is a dominant perception that there is no inequality between men and women in organizations. This finding goes along with the statement of Benschop and Doorewaard (1998), that, in most organizations, there is a culture expressed in norms, values, and notions on what is right and wrong, emphasizing the existence of gender equality. This dominant perception of equality is based on a specific conception of equality, which is strictly formal and calls for the identical treatment of all people, disregarding the circumstances. In contrast, a substantial conception of equality may leave some room for unequal treatment in unequal situations, and would take differences between employees into consideration. This leads to a conclusion that the organizational culture of most companies continues to give a priority to equal opportunities rather than the recognition of unequal practices.

The finding that employed and retired people perceived overall gender inequality to a greater extent than others is also worth mentioning. To the best of my knowledge, none of the previous studies included occupational categorization as a factor predicting individuals’ opinions concerning gender inequality. This provides a unique contribution of this thesis. In the theoretical part of the second thesis paper, I hypothesized that employed and retired people would perceive overall gender inequality to a greater extent than students. This reasoning was based on earlier empirical studies. The results of the paper showed that both employed and retired people perceived overall gender inequality to a greater extent than students. This means that labour market experience leads to greater perceptions of gender inequality among people. The finding that employed people perceived overall gender inequality to a greater extent than students might be explained by occupational socialization theory (Smith and Rogers, 2000), according to which employed people might be more