# ISSN 2393-9451

which involved task responsibility and specific job attitude to perform the technical function at stipulated time. (Motowidlo & Schmit, 1999). There had been several theories which were signifying that leadership style marked a massive difference in any of its follower’s performance, but theoretical work found it tough to make a clear association among “which leadership styles relate which performance factors of employees”, since both the notions had multiple perplexing variables which made it difficult to validate the reliable source and outcome among them. The problem statement of this research paper was that the banking sector plays a lead and significant role in Indian economic growth. However, to accelerate it for future uncertain challenges with the more effective result in the overall world, banking top officials and supervisorswere required to inspire their subordinates for High-level performance. Leadership was a critical aspect that might had a high impact on employee individual job performance” (Yukl, 1998). Hence, the banking sector, including public and private banks, must hire a specialized leader to understand the importance of banks’ mission and vision along with employees’ aspirations. So, to trace the bright and positive relationship among a leader and performance, this paper through primary data, had attempted to explore bank employees’ level of task performance concerning three independent leadership style (Transformational, transactional and laissez-faire). Consequently, thi s research paper will also examine that which style mostly prevails in the bank and the different levels of impact of all three styles on their follower’s performance in Rajasthan, directed to project the study hypotheses.

from their opponents; one of these was the company manager’s or leader’s capacity to accelerated organization services with new know-how to acquaint the hastily reformed probabilities (Hamel & Prahalad, 1990). Several leadership styles had dissimilar relation with their employee’s behavior; an efficient leader always gives direction, guidance by persuading thei r cohorts (employees) on the way to attain individual & organizational objectives, which cover all facets of in & out of the organization. Kumar (2014) explained that “The term leadership was valued as a distinct course through which a manager or a person stimulus other to accomplish an objective & leads everyone in the organization in such a manner that develops them in a more unified and lucid way.” Although many experts had acclaimed that leaders always make efforts in fostering, the aspiration of the organization by inspiring subordinates towards the positive effort collectively. However, Still, academicians contend that here was a gap in the leadership literature of the Indian banking sector. Although, there had been several individuals and organizational factors that result employee’s performance like employee’s personality, satisfaction, engagement, abilities, and skills (Flippo, 1995) or the organization’s culture, structure, superior behavior peers, reward system and many more. Among them, the leadership style of superior was found as the most impacting factor. The past facts on leadership & work performance had made various authors & researchers to rethink in some specific way as the past the result was lacking consistency. Deinert et al. (2015) stated that even though there was a need to observe “specific “transformational factor or the behavior o f leadership” on the scale in India. Additional explicitly, we can notice that still, studies had not yet explor ed the leadership behaviors of Indian bank officials a nd its connection with bank employees’ task performance.