# ISSN 2393-9451

The scientific data advocates a blend of approaches in establishments. A CIPD (2011) survey concluded that several establishments have opted for an exclusive approach which concentrates on grooming top executives only. There has been a great deal of emphasis on huge potential, future stars, prospective managers and go-getter. The exclusive approach implemented by Somerfield Ltd (Cook and Macaulay 2009) assisted the organization in creating a bench strength of budding leaders. Cook and Macaulay (2009) revealed that a more inclusive approach was implemented by Electrolux Ltd, wherein every staff member is regarded as talented. They recommend that not merely the high promising workers need to be focused upon. Mere concentration on handful employees who are selected, groomed, compensated and taken to next level can result in discouragement and inefficiency of rest of them and they may not get an opportunity to be promoted to leadership positions. Although the McKinsey Consulting Group in the beginning strongly favoured an exclusive technique to developing, currently they recommend an inclusive technique which aims to develop not only “A players” but “B players” as well (Ernst & Young, 2010). Yet, comparatively lesser number of organizations implements inclusive technique.A survey conducted in Public Personnel Management (Reilly, 2008) clearly indicates that inclusive techniques are prevalent in state owned enterprises. Bersin (2010) views this inclusive approach as a kind of talent segmentation but with credit th at entire staff members contribute in the organization. Christensen et al., (2010) stated that this kind of approach is in accordance with an innovative perspective. Such approach implies that every employee must be viewed talented in view of his capability for innovative thinking. To surpass the drawbacks of these approaches, Van der Sluis and Van De Bunt – Kokhuis (2009) advocated the mixed approach that facilitates organizations to derive the benefits of these two models. Ford et al., (2010) further reveals that a mixed approach to development would eventually be most appropriate when it comes to equity, impartiality and staff encouragement.

There is significant discussion about the pros and cons of exclusive and inclusive approaches; but, it is important to realize the manner in which both techniques affect organizational profitability and the commitment of staffs that are ignored in an exclusive technique.

Modus operandi - Make versus Buy approach toward talent development Brewster et al., (2007) revealed that due to unfair and illegal acts like poaching of talents, establishments have lost some of their talented staffs to their rivals and have been left with an option to either train or attract other staffs in order to thrive as well as survive. However, there is no clarity whether organizations should concentrate more on hiring and recruitment or developing of talented employees (Briscoe and Hall 1999). Make or buyapproach has been an object of continuing discussion among management scholar in the literary works (Cappelli, 2008; Cappelli& Keller, 2014). Pfeffer (2001), as one of the patrons of ‘make’ approach, cautions that sheer consideration to hire and engage and overlooking the development of talent might weaken the establishment in the long run. Furthermore, according to Garavan et al., (2012), concentrating on procuring talents from the outside is less fruitful in the longer term; on the contrar y, establishments must practice the policy of developing talented employees internally, with a view that sta ff members have sector and business-related know-how and expertise (Lepak and Snell, 1999) so that he remains in competition. Consequently, for the purpose of realizing their mission and goals, establishments have to aim at staff development.

- 6. Talent Development Tools Organizations rely on a set of tools for the talent development. The particular technique for organizations is based on strategic goal, learning requirements, availableness of resources, etc. Based on McCauley et al., (2010), the kinds of programs utilized to develop talent by organizations may be classifie d into these distinct groups: developmental assignments, feedback processes, developmental relationships,formal programs and self-development activities. IITM Journal of Business Studies (JBS)

- 6. Talent Development Tools Organizations rely on a set of tools for the talent development. The particular technique for organizations is based on strategic goal, learning requirements, availableness of resources, etc. Based on McCauley et al., (2010), the kinds of programs utilized to develop talent by organizations may be classifie d into these distinct groups: developmental assignments, feedback processes, developmental relationships,formal programs and self-development activities. IITM Journal of Business Studies (JBS)