---
source_path: final_2019_jan_feb_jbs_pmd.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 479d369e199cf515e966353b6cc5cc580f4a2254
title: final_2019_jan_feb_jbs_pmd
---
# Profitability, Liquidity.

- 1. Introduction Non banking financial companies (NBFCs) constitute as important segment of the financial system in India. The financial system of India comprises of financia l institutions, financial instruments and financial markets that provide an effective payment and credit system and thereby facilitate channelizing of funds from savers to the investors of the economy. NBFCs are financial intermediaries engaged primarily in the business of accepting deposits and delivering credi t. They play an important role in channelizing the limited financial resources to capital formation. NBFCs supplement the role of banking sector in meeting the increasing financial needs of the corporate sector, delivering credit to the unorganized sector and to small local borrowers. NBFCs have a more flexible structure than banks. As compared to banks, they can take quick decisions, assume greater risks, tailor make their services and changes according to the needs of the Dr. Bhaskar Biswas* Assistant Professor of Commerce Raja Rammohun Roy Mahavidyalaya, Radhanagar, Hooghly

clients. Their flexible structure helps in broadeni ng the market by providing the saver and investor a bundle of services on a competitive basis. A non banking financial company has been defined vide clause (b) of the section 45-1 of the chapter 111B of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 as (i) a financial institution, which is a company ; ii) a non banking financial institution, which is a company and which has as its principal business the receiving of depo sits under any scheme or arrangement or in any other manner or lending in any manner ; iii) such other non banking institutions or class of such institutions , as the bank may with the previous approval of the central government and by notification in the official gazette, specify. NBFC has been defined under clause (xi) of paragraph 2(1) of Non Banking Financial Companies Acceptance of Public Deposits (Reserve Bank) Directions, 1998, as: ‘non banking financial company ‘means only the non banking institution which is a loan company or an investment company or an equipment leasing company or a mutual benefit finance company. NBFCs provide a range of services such as hire purchase
