---
source_path: final_2019_jan_feb_jbs_pmd.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5d570ca1f034156a1bdb4b1fb7d2414ed6589c3c
title: final_2019_jan_feb_jbs_pmd
---
# ISSN 2393-9451

Blockchain technology is ideal for creating trust in information and scenarios where heterogeneous stakeholders are involved. Unlike traditional, centralised databases, where a single entity is generally responsible for collecting, securing and sharing information, blockchain platforms are based on decentralised, shared databases that are updated and verified by the community of users. Using Smart Contract Business Logic can be automated in the Blockchain for verification by Public Administrators, leading to substantial cost and time savings.

- 3. Data Integrity and Reliability According to Oz Nathan et al. in “Decentralizing Privacy: Using Blockchain to Protect Personal Data”[23]centralized organizations including Public Sectorgather large quantities of personal and sensitive information. The individuals have limited control over the data and how it is used.[5]. In continuation, Nathan et al. continue to create Blockchain based frameworks where the Users have full control of their data and do not need to trust third parties with their information. As mentioned by Ahmed Alketbi et.al in[2] a key advantages of the Blockchain is that it is resistant to outages due to its Decentralized architecture. Known Challenges of Blockchain with Government Right to Forget & Data Portability

- 4. User Privacy Also as mentioned in[17], Blockchain is expected to increase the reliability of information through use of consensus mechanisms which ensure that information exchange happens only upon getting consent from all relevant parties. As mentioned in[2] the Blockchain promises data integrity and prevention of the unauthorized change of data by the use cryptography. Security is maintained through decentralized Ledgers which are controlled by a consortium and not Individual Owners. Blockchain is very good at creating trusted audit trails of information, making it simple to create platforms to track when and where data was entered. 5. Decentralized Access Control Paradoxically, blockchain also make it relatively easy to keep data both private and easily shareable. Depending on how a system is designed, administrators can develop complex permission schemes to control who has access to what kinds of information, what can be shared by whom, and so on. In contrast to databases, Blockchain enables such capabilities among large, diverse groups without relying on or having to trust a single authority to do the job. In the paper [23] Nathan et. have created a novel Blockchain based Framework where access-control policies would be securely stored on a blockchain and only the authorized users are allowed to change it.

GDPR applies to Personal Data including data which has been Pseudo Anonymized. It is applicable for 3rd party entities which own Subscriber Data known as “Data Controllers”. GDPR enforces that all private data be pseudo anonymized and only minimal data be shared with 3rd Parties. One of the key components of this is the “Right To Be Forgotten” i.e. when the individual removes his consent from the organization, it should be immediately deleted from the system. However, the key attribute of Blockchain is immutability which opposes the Right to Forget.
