# ISSN 2393-9451

concluded that probably the most noteworthy drift in the domain of employee development in the last two decades might have been the universality and acceptance of 360-degree feedback. People termed it as the most remarkable management innovations in the last 20 years (London & Beatty, 1993; Atwater & Waldman, 1998). This mechanism gives better results if it begins with managers at the top of the hierarchy and flows downward all through the organizational structure.

Formal Programs This technique involves participation to business events, executive education and formal education. Examining its goals, Rothwell and Kazanas (2003) put forward a demarcation between employee education that concentrates on transforming people to assist them groom for job progression vertically (up the chain of command) or horizontally (across a range of specialized skill) and staff training that is a short-period, transformation endeavor aimed at enhancing productivity at an individual level.

Self-Development Activities Organizations may provide a plethora of self- activatedprograms to develop leaders. Books, articles, newspaper, magazines, manuals, journals, reports, publications and online materialsact as a primary source of learning and awareness for employee members. Distinguished personalities, eminent speakers, guest lectures, seminar, conference and workshops give an opportunity to experts, wizards and veterans who can share ideas and keep abreast with the recent technological advancements and developments in the industry. Attending seminars, conventions and trade shows also provides orientation to contemporary ideas and concepts and latest developments, as well as networking with like-minded people who are continuous source of learning and guidance. Events that encourage and energize knowledge sharing and dialogue beyond management levels – fireside chats, town hall meetings, staff meetings, conclaves, etc. – can well be considered as an important component of the employee advancement mechanism as these expose employees

to various aspects, strengthen institutional core values, and promote open-mindedness, positiveness and transparency. These flexible chunks of learning are less- time taking, are accessible whenever learning is required, and available in abundance.

- 7. Conclusions On the basis of this review of the domain of talent development, a number of tentative inferences can be concluded. Talent development is a considerably under-developed and less-researched topic. It is consistently regarded as an important constituent o f talent management process, which in turn is put forward as one of the top most challenges encountered by the organizations these days.Though talent is limited and economic downturn has compelledfew organizations to put talent development to the offstage, yet it is requisite for every organization. For tale nt development to be effectual there is no universally- accepted approach. However, the broad array of development tools needs to be considered to determine its suitability. From our point of view there is scope in the talent development concept. A universally accepted definition of talent development and its scope need to be further researched. There can be no convincing manner of distinguishing talent, so talented individuals might be unnoticed, or those selected may not have the competence they initially appeared to have. Furthermore, there is one area about which there is no unanimity, and this concerns who all employees of the organization should be taken into consideration for the talent development program. There is proof that the new approaches to talent development are emerging: an earlier focus on exclusive models that intended to identify and develop top management talent (A players) is giving way to a realization that A players need to be part of productive and talented teams, and these teams, consisting of ‘B players’, can be found at all leve ls of the organization, and indeed in supplying or partner organizations. Inclusive approaches may therefore dominate in the second decade of the 21st century, much as exclusive approaches did in the first decade. The inclusive, as opposed to exclusive approach IITM Journal of Business Studies (JBS)

- 7. Conclusions On the basis of this review of the domain of talent development, a number of tentative inferences can be concluded. Talent development is a considerably under-developed and less-researched topic. It is consistently regarded as an important constituent o f talent management process, which in turn is put forward as one of the top most challenges encountered by the organizations these days.Though talent is limited and economic downturn has compelledfew organizations to put talent development to the offstage, yet it is requisite for every organization. For tale nt development to be effectual there is no universally- accepted approach. However, the broad array of development tools needs to be considered to determine its suitability. From our point of view there is scope in the talent development concept. A universally accepted definition of talent development and its scope need to be further researched. There can be no convincing manner of distinguishing talent, so talented individuals might be unnoticed, or those selected may not have the competence they initially appeared to have. Furthermore, there is one area about which there is no unanimity, and this concerns who all employees of the organization should be taken into consideration for the talent development program. There is proof that the new approaches to talent development are emerging: an earlier focus on exclusive models that intended to identify and develop top management talent (A players) is giving way to a realization that A players need to be part of productive and talented teams, and these teams, consisting of ‘B players’, can be found at all leve ls of the organization, and indeed in supplying or partner organizations. Inclusive approaches may therefore dominate in the second decade of the 21st century, much as exclusive approaches did in the first decade. The inclusive, as opposed to exclusive approach IITM Journal of Business Studies (JBS)