---
source_path: from_big_data_to_deep_data_to_support_people_analytics_for_employee_attrition_pr.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 882d8a25572b36e233794e341dff5b7c2821869a
title: from_big_data_to_deep_data_to_support_people_analytics_for_employee_attrition_pr
---
# N. B. Yahia et al.: From Big Data to Deep Data to Support People Analytics for Employee Attrition Prediction

TABLE 6. Comparison of accuracy models for IBM/Kaggle HR datasets with existing works.

real data. In fact, VC outperforms all the other classiﬁers in terms of accuracy especially when using our real dataset compared to the simulated ones. With regards to the differ- ent used machine learning classiﬁers, the use of ensemble learning VC gives better results in terms of accuracy for both simulated and real dataset regardless of the application of feature selection. In particular, for our ﬁnal dataset, ensemble learning VC gives the best results with an accuracy of 0.99. This can be explained by the fact that the ensemble learning aims to combine (weak) learners in one method by taking advantage of their complementarity to output best accurate results. In addition, with regards to deep learning predictors, our ensemble learning VC also outperforms them in both simulated and real data. This result may be explained by the quantity of the provided data. In fact, deep learning algo- rithms require ‘‘relatively’’ large datasets to work well and to give better results, and it also needs the infrastructure to train them in reasonable time. Also, deep learning algorithms require many more experiences and they are more beneﬁcial when we deal with complex problems and real big data with a greater number of features.

Moreover, in order to compare accuracy of our proposed models with regards to recent works that reused the sim- ulated HR datasets, we show in Table 6 different results. We note here that for IBM HR simulated dataset, our ensemble learning VC gives the best results with an accu- racy of 0.93. For Kaggle HR simulated dataset, ensemble learning VC equally gives the best results with an accuracy of 0.98.

Apart from proposed predictive models and their combi- nation to get more accurate employee attrition predictions, the salient contributions in this paper basically deal with two points. The ﬁrst one concerns the proposals of a deep data- driven predictive approach. In fact, our approach focuses on

the use of relevant data and the selection of impactful features instead of using all the collected data. It is helpful mentioning here that feature selection gives an effective way to reduce the complexity of classiﬁcation problems by removing irrelevant and redundant data, which can reduce computation time, improve learning accuracy, and facilitate a better understand- ing for the learning model. According to the results, those substantiations were experimentally proved here as shown in tables 4 and 5. In fact, an improvement of accuracy measures for most of the classiﬁers is marked when feature selection is used. We also note an improvement of the F1-score after fea- tures selection. This conﬁrms the effectiveness of our chosen employee attrition model in this study and the good results from multiple classiﬁers after feature selection justify that the selected features are effectively contribute to voluntary attri- tion. Even for the human resources IBM simulated dataset, predictors’ performance has been improved by reducing the number of existing features and keeping only our 11 selected features, and in particular, ensemble method VC accuracy has been slightly increased from 0.93 before feature selection to 0.96 after feature selection. Moreover, ensemble learning VC applied to our ﬁnal dataset after feature selection gives the best results with an accuracy of 0.99. This also conﬁrms that the choice of SelectKBest and RFE as the two feature selectionalgorithmsisagoodonetoimproveandvalidateour employee attrition model. So, this deep study also comple- ments previous ﬁndings reported in the literature regarding the impactful features on employee attrition and conﬁrms only the need of the 11 selected features.

The second salient contribution in this paper concerns the interpretation and the explanation of the attrition phenomena and so the recommendations for effective retention. Accord- ing to [37], retention policies fall into three levels of HR man- agement: High, medium and low levels. Each level considers a different perspective and requires a different kind of strate- gies that can help to combat the problem of attrition arising at that level. In the lower managerial level, understanding and money are keys to retention, whereas, for the medium man- agerial level managers’ appreciation, training and business travel programs act as major keys. Finally, for the high-level management, retention policies include freedom of decision makingandcreationofatrustworthyenvironment.Thus,gen- erally,organizationsshouldcreateanenvironmentthatfosters work appreciation and a friendly collaborative atmosphere that makes an employee feel involved and connected to the organization. Especially for our real case study, results of feature importance applied to our RF classiﬁer and plotted in ﬁgure 5 show that, for the 450 respondents, the high- est importance is assigned ﬁrstly to the ’’Business Travel’’ feature and secondly to ‘Rewards’. Meaning that Business travel presents the most motivational attribute and the key to employee retention with regards to the studied dataset. Thus, HR manager should adopt a retention strategy in the medium managerial level and try to organize some business travels for the employees. While rewards, pay and effort–reward imbal- ance are generally considered as the most impactful variables

VOLUME 9, 2021

60455
