# N. B. Yahia et al.: From Big Data to Deep Data to Support People Analytics for Employee Attrition Prediction

- 1) MACHINE LEARNING BASED PREDICTIVE MODELS 1. Decision Tree is built through a recursive partitioning process where paths from root to leaf represent classiﬁcation rules [28]. Each internal node represents a ‘‘test’’ on an attribute, each branch represents the partitioned outcome of the test, and each leaf represents a class label in classiﬁcation case or a numerical value in regression case.

- 2. Support Vector Machine is a supervised learning algo- rithm that is used for linear as well as nonlinear classiﬁcation problems. To achieve class separation, it uses a hyper- plane or a set of hyper-planes in higher dimensional space. The intuition in this statistical learning based algorithm is that a good separation is achieved by the hyper-plane that has the largest distance to the nearest training data points of any class [29].

FIGURE 3. Architecture of the proposed approach.

our proposed approach. The ﬁrst step is data pre-processing. The second one deals with attrition prediction based on machine, ensemble and deep learning models. And, the third one deals with interpretation to explain to HR managers the why of this employee attrition.

- 3. Logistic Regression is a simple statistical technique and one of the basic linear models for classiﬁcation that uses the logistic function to model categorical or binary dependent variables. It’s often used with regularization in the form of penalties based on L1-norm or L2-norm to avoid over-ﬁtting [30].

A. DATA PREPROCESSING To better train predictive models, data pre-processing is one of the key steps. To do so, data provided by respondents is transformed and encoded to make them proper for processing and training using the library functions provided and imple- mented in Python’s library scikit-learn [27]. For instance, categorical features were One-Hot Encoded, by which each of the distinct values in the categorical ﬁelds was converted to numerical values, and then scaling technique is used to put all the features on a similar scale by normalizing data to ranges from −1 to 1 which avoids outliers to affect the predictions.

B. ATTRITION PREDICTION MODELS Employee attrition prediction is tackled as a supervised learn- ing problem, and in particular, as a binary classiﬁcation one. In other words, we are interested in detecting and conﬁrming the existence or not of the employee’s intention to leave. To do so, we have put to the test different supervised machine and deep learning techniques, using also the implementations provided in Python’s library scikit-learn [29]. In particu- lar, we have adhered to the following classiﬁers: Decision Tree, Logistic Regression and Support Vector Machine (as machine learning models), Random Forest, XGBoost and Vote Classiﬁer (as ensemble learning models) and three deep learning models (DNN, LSTM and CNN). A grid- search algorithm was performed for each classiﬁer over tun- ing hyperparameters and the dataset was split 10:70:20 into validation, training and test sets. Then, the different models were trained using their best conﬁguration on the training dataset.

- 2) DEEP LEARNING BASED PREDICTIVE MODELS 1. Deep Neural Networks (DNN), [31], are deep Artiﬁcial Neural Networks (ANN) with multiple (at least two) hidden layers where the ‘‘deep’’ refers to the number of hidden layers through which the data is transformed from the input to the output layers. In classical DNN, each layer is composed of a set of neurons and an activation function and is fully connected. A set of weights is affected to each neuron where each weight is multiplied by one input into the neuron. They are then summed to form the output from the neuron after it has been fed through the activation function.

- 2. Long Short-Term Memory Networks (LSTM) are an ameliorationofrecurrentneuralnetworks(RNN)thatareable to model sequential and temporal data and to predict times series [32]. More speciﬁcally, a cell state is added in LSTM to store long-term states and to build more stable RNN for time series prediction by detecting and memorizing the long- term dependencies existing in the time series.

- 3. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) [33], contain generally four types of layers in their structure: an input layer, convolutional layers, pooling layers, and fully connected layer (output). In the convolutional layer, which represents the most important CNN part, the input will be convoluted with different ﬁlters where each ﬁlter is considered as a smaller matrix. Then, corresponding feature maps will be generated after the convolution operation. The pooling opera- tion consists in reducing the size, while preserving the impor- tant features. The efﬁciency of the network is thus improved, and over-ﬁtting is avoided. So, the main role of convolutional and pooling layers is generally to extract features, and the main goal of fully connected layers is usually to output the information from feature maps together, and then provide them to latter layers. VOLUME 9, 2021

- 3. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) [33], contain generally four types of layers in their structure: an input layer, convolutional layers, pooling layers, and fully connected layer (output). In the convolutional layer, which represents the most important CNN part, the input will be convoluted with different ﬁlters where each ﬁlter is considered as a smaller matrix. Then, corresponding feature maps will be generated after the convolution operation. The pooling opera- tion consists in reducing the size, while preserving the impor- tant features. The efﬁciency of the network is thus improved, and over-ﬁtting is avoided. So, the main role of convolutional and pooling layers is generally to extract features, and the main goal of fully connected layers is usually to output the information from feature maps together, and then provide them to latter layers. VOLUME 9, 2021