## ISSN: 0976-7797 Impact Factor: 5.183 Index Copernicus Value (ICV) = 77.57

Upon the belief that he or she was a victim of discrimination based on the ADA, the individual is allowed to submit a complaint or a charge of discrimination to the EEOC. The agency will also research the claim to make a decision on whether it believes there was any reasonable cause that they were being discriminated against or not (Heymann et al., 2022). In that case, the EEOC can move to come up with a settlement between the employer and the employee. When the mediation is ineffective or when the case has wider interests, EEOC may sue, as a trial court agent of the complainant, or may send a right-to-sue letter, allowing this person to sue privately. EEOC is a preventive body that also communicates with employers and HR professionals on guidelines, documents, training materials, and technical resources. This will be a major educational element that makes everyone consistently aware of what ADA requires in every industry and jurisdiction (Bird, 2025). Nonetheless, the efficacy and scope of the EEOC are dependent on the availability of resources, cooperation by the states, and the complexity of cases, which tend to bring in inconsistencies in the enforcement of the ADA. 2.3 Employer Obligations Under the ADA Under Title I of the ADA, the obligations of the employer are several well-spelled out duties and are meant to enhance access at the workplace as well as discourage discrimination. These duties divide into three basic categories (Blanck, 2023): 1.(cid:32) Non-Discrimination in Employment Decisions:

Employers are prohibited from using disability as a factor in whether to hire, promote, assign a job, or fire a person. They should also not use qualification criteria for selection standards that disqualify people with disability unless such a standard is job and business-related.