---
source_path: from_big_data_to_deep_data_to_support_people_analytics_for_employee_attrition_pr.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a5b91dd1fd70a23e6f2e1f2190bd3bae7030338c
title: from_big_data_to_deep_data_to_support_people_analytics_for_employee_attrition_pr
---
# N. B. Yahia et al.: From Big Data to Deep Data to Support People Analytics for Employee Attrition Prediction

whetheremployeeswillleaveornotcanhelptheorganization improve the HR management and save the cost on it [4].

Therefore for the HR managers, it is crucial to have a better idea of what kind of employees will tend to leave and what kind of features will inﬂuence them to leave [6]. Most commonly, organizations desire to make sure the right employees are in the right place at the right time and identify- ing employees’ intention to leave by means of analytics [7]. Descriptive analytics are used to summarize or turn data into relevant information so investigate what has occurred. In other words, descriptive analytics have some meaningful impact by explaining what has already happened however, they are not much helpful in predicting what will hap- pen or may happen in the future. On the contrary, predictive analytics have been proposed and used to forecast what will happen in the future. In the ﬁeld of HR, predictive analytics leadtoachievementoforganizationalbeneﬁtsandhelpsurely in better decision-making in the organization without any biasness, especially with the most prosperous trend of the big data era and data science basing on machine and deep learn- ing techniques [8]. In fact, data is considered as one of the mandatory ingredients that a people analytics team requires to be effective [9]. Otherwise, HR is set to fail in handling Big Data challenges since Big Data focuses on capturing every piece of available information and collecting every suitable and unsuitable data. But, in HR analytics context, the issue must move from the size of the data to its smartness and making better use of data to create and capture value, being a necessary prerequisite to the more advanced forms of big data analysis [4]. Additionally, [10] highlighted the limits of the application of Big Data within a contextual HR case study, whilst also noting the need to shift the focus from a quan- titative to a qualitative analysis of HR data. In this context, the concept of deep data was born to deal with collecting only relevant and speciﬁc information and excluding information that might be unusable or otherwise redundant [11].

Thus, in this paper, we mainly focus on two dimensions: a functionaldimensionandadatadimension.Fromafunctional dimension, we aim to test, compare and select the best accu- rate predictive model that can early detect employee attrition. We also aim to interpret the positive attrition to ﬁnd reasons behind it and so to support HR managers to build retention plan.Fromadatadimension,thekeypropertyoftheproposed approach,weaimtoshiftfrombigdatatodeepdatatoaddress data issues that organizations may face when implementing HR analytics.

Big data is a label commonly used to identify large vol- umes of (structured or unstructured) data that can gener- ally be deﬁned with the help of the 3Vs volume, velocity, and variety. Volume refers to the quantity of data that are produced by various sources such as sensors, social media, business transactions, etc. Velocity represents the speed at which data are produced, and variety refers to the different formats of data. Over the last decade, the exploitation of big data has become very popular among organizations and these ones tend to adopt new data-driven strategic decision-making

models and especially big data analytics across different HR functions [12]. One of the main challenges of using analytics in HR is the deﬁciency of empirical data. In fact, lack of enough empirical data can be in terms of both the number of candidates or samples, as well as the number of features and this fails to adequately train a reliable model based on such a small dataset. Hence, organizations that plan to use HR analytics ﬁrst have to face the data availability challenge and they must be able to produce very large volumes of data [13]. Consequently, organizations need large-scale stor- age solutions that tend to be cloud-based and which require high costs. Moreover, small organizations may not have high- quality HR data and may lack the analytical capabilities to adapt techniques designed for big data to areas where the volume of data is quite small (big data). In this context, the main challenge is the quality of data where organizations must know exactly the data, they need to support their HR analytics functions as HR managers may not have need to all the data they collect. From this point of view, the volume of data is not very important, as what matters in this context is the value of data. Importantly, the identiﬁcation of deep data, a high-quality data that focus on speciﬁc predict trends, is a major barrier to the use of HR analytics for some orga- nizations. So, the main objective of our approach is to shift from big data to deep data perspective and to section down the massive amount of data by excluding useless or duplicate information.

Thereby, in this paper, we aim to propose a deep data- driven predictive approach that can early detect and predict employee intention to leave. Comparing with the related works, this approach focuses on small information-rich HR data within big data. In fact, recent related works such as [14]–[25] and [26] are commonly focusing on ﬁnd- ing the best predictive models with high performances to predict employee attrition using generally benchmarks and simulated open data such as HR IBM1 and HR Kaggle2 datasets. But, in this paper, we argue that apart from mod- els performances, the HR data must be well constructed and ﬁltered to give relevant and rapid prediction without biases.

Thanks to this deep-data driven approach, which is based on small data providing the greatest business value at a lower cost than vast volumes of big data with regards to the real impactful factors on employee attrition. Thus, the main goals of this research are to: 1) create an effective employee attrition model that contains the necessary and sufﬁcient factors for early detection of attrition intent by deploying a mixed method based on exploratory as well as quantitative analyses, 2) build decision models to predict attrition using Machine, Ensemble and Deep Learning techniques (ML, EL and DL),3) make interpretations to explain and identify the exact reasons behind employee attrition, and 4) make
