---
source_path: from_big_data_to_deep_data_to_support_people_analytics_for_employee_attrition_pr.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6717ba3c211c7c0884f2efb160d6898daeec3724
title: from_big_data_to_deep_data_to_support_people_analytics_for_employee_attrition_pr
---
# N. B. Yahia et al.: From Big Data to Deep Data to Support People Analytics for Employee Attrition Prediction

on employee attrition as in [2] and [16], ﬁndings here indi- cate, however, that one of the leading features identiﬁed is less common in the literature: business travel. In fact and as reported in the literature (e.g., [39]), business travel, whether domestic or international, undoubtedly brings beneﬁts for employees and is shown to have a signiﬁcant effect up and beyond technology transfer through innovation and inspira- tion from other environments. Indeed, it has been suggested that the experience of visiting clients, other companies, cities and countries broaden employees’ understanding of different cultures and make them more open-minded.

At this stage, we assume that there might be some validity threats of our research ﬁndings, and we have self-assessed themhereinordertodenotethetrustworthinessofourresults, to what extent they are true and not biased by our subjec- tive point of view. In addition, these potential threats are addressed according to the classiﬁcation proposed in [40]. Regarding the construct validity, we assume that the provided measures could be biased regarding the researchers’ expected results. However, we have used in this research, to validate and evaluate the performance of the adopted classiﬁers, accu- racy which is considered as a standard metric often used for measuring performance by reducing biases. They are also robust, particularly for balanced data, which is almost our case here as for our real dataset 47,3% of respondents want to leave their jobs and 52,7% don’t have the intention to quit. Regarding the external validity, there might be some issues regarding generalization of our predictive approach as collected data through the employee survey were small data (450 samples) which might indicate a low relevance of the obtained results. To overcome this issue, this approach and its learnt models are assessed on the large-sized Kaggle HR simulated dataset (15000 samples) and the medium-sized IBMHRsimulateddataset(1470samples)whichwillprovide more consistent feedback about the relevance of our results. Finally, regarding reliability, there might be a potential threat that concerns the dependency of data and analysis on the speciﬁc researchers. However, we are doing an effort towards tryingtominimizethisthreatbycollectingdatafromdifferent countries with different cultures.

want to leave and to help them in adopting key policies to retention.

In terms of study limitations, considering dynamic features that deal with employees’ behaviour and their emotional states will be promising to study their impact on employee attrition. In this case, the predictive models training must be on-line as data will be dynamic and new data can be added whenever required. We acknowledge also that our question- naire respondents have equally suggested other features to be considered and that can cause voluntary turnover and so can be integrated into our future study. In fact, they have proposed to consider health issues, job security and the use of new technologies in the company. Finally, in future research, considering unbalanced data is a real challenge especially for organizations and companies with high turnover rate because the adopted predictive models are experimentally not suitable for unbalanced data.
