---
source_path: from_big_data_to_deep_data_to_support_people_analytics_for_employee_attrition_pr.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8d83dbc2c89d38dd9f0e03c7da9ac15e0928509f
title: from_big_data_to_deep_data_to_support_people_analytics_for_employee_attrition_pr
---
## FIGURE 1. Our mixed method for employee attrition modelling.

A. FEATURES COLLECTION: EXPLORATORY STUDY The ﬁrst step in this study was to identify and collect employee features that are suitable for our analysis. This step is carried out using an exploratory research of fac- tors responsible for employee turnover that relies on sec- ondary researches by reviewing available literature. Thus, the exploratory research method, conducted in the ﬁrst step, helped us identifying and collecting adequate and impactful features for our problematic that are most commonly used in different related works and researches in the available literature. In fact, through this exploratory study, based on reviewing of many researches, experiments in HR manage- ment and open simulated HR datasets (the ﬁctional data set created by IBM data scientists, and the simulated HR dataset supported by Kaggle) referenced in Table 1, we found that the strongest consensual predictors for employee voluntary turnover are Age, Education, Gender, Job involve- ment (implication of employee in decision making), Job satisfaction (Career satisfaction), Marital status, Job perfor- mance (skills adequacy), Tenure, Promotability (promotions in work), Business Travel, Grade, Rewards (Pay, organiza- tion based-rewards, Motivation factors, Salary), Relationship Satisfaction (Hostile organization culture), Environment Satisfaction (favourable or unfavourable working condi- tions), Training (Training time number, Uncongenial Work environment), Work life/balance. In table 2, we summarize thesemostcited16featuresthatarecommonlyandfrequently used in the available literature.

questionnaire is prepared and used as a data gathering instrument from respondents (presented in the appendix and accessible through this link). Features collected through the exploratory method have been divided into three parts. Part 1 comprises demographic variables including: Gender, Age, Education, Marital status and Tenure. Part 2 is about their overall level of satisfaction, motivation, involvement and life interest (Job satisfaction, Job involvement, Job performance, Promotability, Environment satisfaction, Rewards, Relation- ship satisfaction, Business travel, Grade, Training, Work life/ balance). Finally, part 3 aims to know the most impactful fac- tors according to respondents and to collect their suggestions (if they are other features that can cause a turnover and so can be integrated into our study). From the designed survey we received450 responses. Respondents were university people from different countries (Tunisia, Norway, France, United States, China, Italy, Pakistan, India, England and Germany). The questionnaire is anonymous. 44,5% of respondents are female and 55,5% are male. Age of the respondents varies from 27 to 62. Out of the total participants, 47,3% want to leave their jobs and 52,7% don’t have the intention to quit.

B. FEATURE SELECTION: QUANTITATIVE METHOD Following the exploratory study conducted to collect most commonfactorsusedintheliteraturethatinﬂuenceemployee attrition, a survey research method is adopted to gather nec- essary data for the study. Then, some feature selection tech- niques are also adopted to better ﬁlter the chosen features and to end up with a ﬁnal employee attrition model.

- 1) DATA COLLECTION: SURVEY In order to collect employee real data and to tap the factors responsible for attrition in our study, an online

- 2) FEATURE SELECTION METHODS To improve our ﬁrst proposition of the employee attrition model, a feature selection procedure will be now followed to better ﬁlter features using collected real data from our survey. Feature selection method is the automatic selection of attributes in the data that are most relevant to the predictive modelling problem we are working on. They aim to create an accurate predictive model by choosing relevant features that will contribute to improve the accuracy and removing irrelevant and redundant attributes. In this study, we will VOLUME 9, 2021

- 2) FEATURE SELECTION METHODS To improve our ﬁrst proposition of the employee attrition model, a feature selection procedure will be now followed to better ﬁlter features using collected real data from our survey. Feature selection method is the automatic selection of attributes in the data that are most relevant to the predictive modelling problem we are working on. They aim to create an accurate predictive model by choosing relevant features that will contribute to improve the accuracy and removing irrelevant and redundant attributes. In this study, we will VOLUME 9, 2021
