data/clean/Gibbons__chunk0023.md, before:

### **[2. From predictable pathways to perpetual adaptation]{.underline}**

[Remember when you could predict what skills would matter in a
decade?]{.underline}

[Exponential change has killed predictability. AI capabilities are
doubling while human development remains linear. The skills you\'re
building today might be obsolete before you master them. The strategy
you\'re implementing might be irrelevant before it\'s complete. The
future isn\'t just uncertain---it\'s fundamentally
unknowable.]{.underline}

[This demands a new kind of leadership: one that thrives on
discontinuity rather than stability. Leaders must now build resilience
when disruption is the norm, create stability through values rather than
processes, focus on building skills with a long 'half life', and embrace
\"strong opinions, loosely held\" as an operating
philosophy.]{.underline}

[The paradox? You must move faster while being more thoughtful. Act
decisively while staying adaptable. Commit fully while being ready to
pivot instantly.]{.underline}

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/Gibbons__chunk0023.md, after:

---
source_path: Gibbons.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3c8b2b0eb4cb42a14e2d72a5746c08bfeda09ef8
title: Gibbons
---
### **[1. From answer-giver to question-master]{.underline}**

[For generations, leaders rose by having the answers. The boss knew
best. Experience meant expertise. Knowledge was power.]{.underline}

[But now, AI systems can process more information in an hour than you
can in a lifetime. They can identify patterns you\'ll never see,
calculate probabilities you can\'t fathom, and generate solutions you
wouldn\'t imagine. So where does that leave you?]{.underline}

[It leaves you with something AI systems don't have: the ability to ask
the questions that matter. Not \"What\'s the answer?\" but \"What should
we be solving for?\" Not \"What does the data say?\" but \"What does
this mean for human beings?\" Not \"How do we optimize?\" but \"Should
we do this at all?\"]{.underline}

[The new leadership premium isn\'t on knowing --- it\'s on judgment,
wisdom, and critical thinking. It\'s on building organizations that
question rather than just execute. Because in a world where AI provides
infinite answers, the scarcest resource becomes asking the right
questions. Critical thinking --- the ability to analyze, evaluate, and
challenge assumptions --- becomes more valuable than any technical
skill. Leaders must model and cultivate this deeper thinking, teaching
their teams to interrogate AI\'s outputs rather than accept them
blindly.]{.underline}
