data/clean/Gibbons__chunk0012.md, before:

### **[What changes when AI joins the team]{.underline}**

[Everything changes when you add AI agents to a team, starting with
communication protocols.]{.underline}

[Boston Dynamics recently demonstrated their Atlas robot taking natural
language commands in a warehouse setting, interpreting requests like
\"grab me that connector over there\" and understanding contextual
references (Boston Dynamics, 2025). This level of natural interaction
requires new protocols for human-AI communication.]{.underline}

[Parloa, a Berlin startup, solved this by creating what they call
\"multi-agent orchestration.\" Their customer service system routes
every interaction through specialized agents --- one flags spam, one
rates toxicity, one checks for self-harm indicators --- then hands
complex cases to human supervisors. The system reduced response time by
67% while improving accuracy (Parloa, 2025).]{.underline}

[Accountability structures also transform. When an AI agent makes an
error, who\'s responsible? Research by MIT on human-AI accountability
found that clear \"accountability matrices\" are essential --- defining
decision spaces where AI agents are autonomous versus where humans
retain responsibility (Brynjolfsson et al., 2023).]{.underline}

[Performance measurement becomes multidimensional. You\'re not just
measuring human performance or AI performance --- you\'re measuring the
effectiveness of their collaboration. Google\'s research on human-AI
teams found that the quality of handoffs between human and AI team
members was the strongest predictor of overall team performance (Google
Research, 2024).]{.underline}

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/Gibbons__chunk0012.md, after:

---
source_path: Gibbons.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a2e090e632f572178be3bce7ec8773999f1b2ae1
title: Gibbons
---
### **[The new org chart]{.underline}**

[Forget everything you know about organizational design. The \'org
chart\' looking forward shouldn\'t just show human relationships. It
shows AI agents as team members with specific roles, responsibilities,
and reporting structures.]{.underline}

[At Kaiser Permanente, the care team now includes AI agents that handle
ambient documentation, saving 16,000 hours in 15 months. These agents
don\'t just execute tasks --- they learn from feedback, adapt to
individual physician styles, and flag potential issues for human review
(Kaiser Permanente, 2025).]{.underline}

[The human physicians don\'t just use these agents as tools. They manage
them like team members. They provide feedback, adjust parameters, and
coordinate handoffs. The agents, in turn, provide performance data back
to help physicians improve their own practices. This bidirectional
management --- humans managing AI, AI providing feedback to humans ---
is the new normal. And most organizations are completely unprepared for
it.]{.underline}
