### **[What it means for CHROs: the evolution from human resources to human cultivation]{.underline}**

[The traditional CHRO role was built on predictable assumptions: defined
job roles, linear career paths, stable skill requirements, and humans as
the only workers. These assumptions are dissolving.]{.underline}

[Every framework underlying talent strategy now requires fundamental
rethinking. Succession planning assumes stable roles that may not exist
in two years. Leadership development programs train for a world that\'s
already changed. Performance management systems measure human output
against human benchmarks, ignoring that AI colleagues are redefining
what \"good\" looks like. Talent pipelines prepare people for jobs while
the definition of those jobs shifts monthly.]{.underline}

[But here\'s the deeper shift: CHROs must evolve from managing human
resources to cultivating human potential in a hybrid workforce. This
means thinking about AI systems not as tools but as colleagues --- team
members with their own capabilities, limitations, and development
trajectories. Your workforce now includes both human and artificial
intelligence, and your role is to help them work together
effectively.]{.underline}

[Consider what this means practically. You\'re no longer just developing
human leaders --- you\'re helping them learn to lead hybrid teams where
an AI might be the most knowledgeable member. You\'re not just building
culture among humans --- you\'re architecting collaboration patterns
between human and artificial colleagues. You\'re not just managing
change --- you\'re shepherding a fundamental redefinition of work
itself.]{.underline}