---
source_path: Gibbons.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 86e43a38cac3fceed566c22d751cc39d6db80bc3
title: Gibbons
---
### **[What changes when AI joins the team]{.underline}**

[Everything changes when you add AI agents to a team, starting with
communication protocols.]{.underline}

[Boston Dynamics recently demonstrated their Atlas robot taking natural
language commands in a warehouse setting, interpreting requests like
\"grab me that connector over there\" and understanding contextual
references (Boston Dynamics, 2025). This level of natural interaction
requires new protocols for human-AI communication.]{.underline}

[Parloa, a Berlin startup, solved this by creating what they call
\"multi-agent orchestration.\" Their customer service system routes
every interaction through specialized agents --- one flags spam, one
rates toxicity, one checks for self-harm indicators --- then hands
complex cases to human supervisors. The system reduced response time by
67% while improving accuracy (Parloa, 2025).]{.underline}

[Accountability structures also transform. When an AI agent makes an
error, who\'s responsible? Research by MIT on human-AI accountability
found that clear \"accountability matrices\" are essential --- defining
decision spaces where AI agents are autonomous versus where humans
retain responsibility (Brynjolfsson et al., 2023).]{.underline}

[Performance measurement becomes multidimensional. You\'re not just
measuring human performance or AI performance --- you\'re measuring the
effectiveness of their collaboration. Google\'s research on human-AI
teams found that the quality of handoffs between human and AI team
members was the strongest predictor of overall team performance (Google
Research, 2024).]{.underline}
