---
source_path: Gibbons.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9a059f68e5c41128f964ade187d2eeed506f91e9
title: Gibbons
---
### **[The future of management]{.underline}**

[We\'re witnessing the biggest transformation in management since the
industrial revolution. The shift from managing only humans to managing
hybrid teams requires new skills, new structures, and new
mindsets.]{.underline}

[But here\'s what excites me: this isn\'t about replacing human
management with algorithmic management. It\'s about evolution. The best
hybrid team managers will be deeply human --- able to navigate the
complex interpersonal dynamics of human team members while also
orchestrating the capabilities of AI agents.]{.underline}

[Research by the World Economic Forum predicts that by 2027, 23% of jobs
will involve managing hybrid human-AI teams. The managers who develop
these skills now will have enormous competitive advantages (World
Economic Forum, 2024).]{.underline}

[Your first hybrid team is probably forming right now, whether you
realize it or not. The question is: are you ready to lead
it?]{.underline}

[References:]{.underline}

[American Express. (2024). Annual report: Innovations in fraud
detection. New York: American Express.]{.underline}

[Anthropic. (2025). Research swarms: Scaling multi-agent reasoning. San
Francisco: Anthropic AI.]{.underline}

[AWS. (2025). Announcing Amazon Bedrock AgentCore. Seattle: Amazon Web
Services.]{.underline}

[Bank for International Settlements. (2024). The rise of hybrid trading
systems. Basel: BIS Quarterly Review.]{.underline}

[Boston Dynamics. (2025). Atlas in the warehouse: Natural language
tasking demo. Waltham, MA: Boston Dynamics.]{.underline}

[Brynjolfsson, E., Li, D., & Raymond, L. (2023). Human-AI accountability
in organizational decisions. MIT Sloan Working Paper.]{.underline}

[Gartner. (2024). Building and managing hybrid human-AI teams. Gartner
Research Report.]{.underline}

[Google Research. (2024). Measuring collaboration quality in human-AI
teams. Mountain View: Google AI.]{.underline}

[Kaiser Permanente. (2025). Ambient AI scribes hit 16,000 hour
milestone. Oakland, CA: Permanente Medical Group.]{.underline}

[McKinsey. (2024). The performance impact of hybrid teams. McKinsey
Global Institute.]{.underline}

[Parloa. (2025). The ant colony playbook: Multi-agent moderation in
production. Berlin: Parloa White Paper.]{.underline}

[Stanford HAI. (2024). Leadership in the age of hybrid teams. Stanford
University Research Report.]{.underline}

[World Economic Forum. (2024). Future of jobs report 2024. Geneva:
WEF.]{.underline}

[\
]{.underline}
