---
source_path: Gibbons.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e9583179fd791e911a24508973299552a8c33664
title: Gibbons
---
### **[The paradigm shift in leading]{.underline}**

[In 1995, Andy Grove, Intel\'s legendary CEO, stood before his
leadership team with an uncomfortable message. The company that
dominated memory chips was being decimated by Japanese competitors.
Grove posed a simple question: \"If we got kicked out and the board
brought in a new CEO, what do you think he would do?\" The answer was
obvious --- exit memory chips and focus on microprocessors. Grove\'s
insight wasn\'t about the technology. It was recognizing that everything
Intel\'s leaders believed about their business --- their entire mental
model of success --- had become obsolete.]{.underline}

[Grove called these moments \"strategic inflection points\" --- times
when the fundamentals of a business shift so profoundly that the old
rules no longer apply. Leaders who recognize these moments early enough
can transform. Those who don\'t become case studies in business
schools.]{.underline}

[We\'re living through such a moment now, but it\'s not confined to a
single company or industry. AI is creating a strategic inflection point
for the very nature of leadership itself. Every leader is now leading in
the age of AI, whether they\'re actively using AI or not. The technology
is reshaping customer expectations, competitive dynamics, and the very
nature of work. You can choose not to use AI, but you can\'t choose to
lead in a world unaffected by it.]{.underline}
