data/clean/Gibbons__chunk0024.md, before:

### **[3. From human resources to human essence]{.underline}**

[Here\'s an uncomfortable truth: AI will soon do most routine cognitive
work better than humans. Not just data entry or basic analysis, but
complex problem-solving, creative writing, even strategic
planning.]{.underline}

[So what becomes of human value? Everything that makes us irreplaceably
human becomes infinitely more valuable. Not our ability to process
information, but our capacity for genuine empathy and connection, moral
imagination and ethical reasoning, meaning-making and purpose creation,
authentic creativity and pathbreaking original thought, and navigating
ambiguity and paradox.]{.underline}

[This shift redefines everything about talent. Hiring transforms from
focusing on credentials to character and creativity. Communication
skills and EQ in abundance. Development shifts from building skills to
unleashing human potential. Evaluation moves from measuring productivity
to assessing contribution to culture. Rewards transition from
recognizing execution to celebrating innovation and
insight.]{.underline}

[Leaders must now manage something unprecedented: identity crises at
scale as entire professions transform. The question isn\'t \"How do we
upskill?\" but \"How do we help people find meaning when machines do the
work?\"]{.underline}

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/Gibbons__chunk0024.md, after:

---
source_path: Gibbons.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7935559d8355df3f64e478887a22f038e4c7a96c
title: Gibbons
---
### **[2. From predictable pathways to perpetual adaptation]{.underline}**

[Remember when you could predict what skills would matter in a
decade?]{.underline}

[Exponential change has killed predictability. AI capabilities are
doubling while human development remains linear. The skills you\'re
building today might be obsolete before you master them. The strategy
you\'re implementing might be irrelevant before it\'s complete. The
future isn\'t just uncertain---it\'s fundamentally
unknowable.]{.underline}

[This demands a new kind of leadership: one that thrives on
discontinuity rather than stability. Leaders must now build resilience
when disruption is the norm, create stability through values rather than
processes, focus on building skills with a long 'half life', and embrace
\"strong opinions, loosely held\" as an operating
philosophy.]{.underline}

[The paradox? You must move faster while being more thoughtful. Act
decisively while staying adaptable. Commit fully while being ready to
pivot instantly.]{.underline}
