data/clean/Gibbons__chunk0004.md, before:

### **Stage 3: Establishing evaluation frameworks**

Here\'s where most human-AI team implementations fail: they don\'t
establish clear frameworks for evaluating outputs from both humans and
AI. Without systematic evaluation, you can\'t identify when the
collaboration is working versus when it\'s creating risk.

This evaluation must be multidirectional. Humans evaluate AI outputs for
accuracy, relevance, and potential bias. But AI should also analyze
patterns in human decisions to identify potential blind spots or
inconsistencies. And crucially, you need to evaluate the collaboration
itself, not just individual components.

A financial advisory firm implemented this multidirectional evaluation
by having AI analyze patterns in advisor recommendations while advisors
assessed AI-generated insights. They discovered advisors consistently
underweighted certain risk factors while the AI missed crucial
contextual information about client life circumstances. By identifying
these complementary blind spots, they designed workflows that
compensated for both.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/Gibbons__chunk0004.md, after:

---
source_path: Gibbons.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ecd0c1dc3cf2c37e43b8a13ab4c8613edcf0ef64
title: Gibbons
---
### **Stage 2: Designing interaction protocols**

Once you\'ve mapped capabilities, you need to design how humans and AI
will actually work together. This isn\'t about installing software and
training people to use it. It\'s about creating new collaborative
workflows that leverage the strengths you\'ve identified.

Consider the spectrum of collaboration models:

- Human-in-the-loop works for high-stakes decisions where AI generates
 > recommendations but humans retain veto power. A medical diagnosis
 > team might use this model, with AI suggesting possibilities but
 > physicians making final determinations.

- AI-in-the-loop suits creative or strategic work where humans lead
 > but consult AI for specific insights. Marketing teams developing
 > campaigns might use AI to analyze consumer data or generate
 > headline variations while maintaining creative control.

- Human-on-the-loop fits moderate-risk, high-volume operations where
 > AI handles routine cases independently while escalating
 > exceptions. Content moderation teams use this model effectively,
 > with AI managing clear policy violations while humans handle
 > nuanced cases.

The key is matching the model to the risk profile and complexity of the
work. Don\'t default to one approach for everything.
