### **[Building organizational metacognition]{.underline}**

[The most forward-thinking organizations are now using AI to develop
collective metacognition --- the ability to think about how the
organization thinks.]{.underline}

[Bridgewater Associates, the world\'s largest hedge fund famous for its
culture of \"radical transparency,\" has been at the forefront of this
approach. The firm has long used algorithmic decision-making and
systematic feedback loops to improve organizational thinking. As co-CIO
Greg Jensen explained at the MIT Sloan Investment Conference, their
systematic approach to decision-making creates a framework where
\"machines are better at finding patterns across times and across
countries.\"]{.underline}

[In 2024, Bridgewater launched a \$2 billion fund that uses machine
learning as the primary basis for decision-making, incorporating models
from OpenAI, Anthropic, and Perplexity. This isn\'t just about AI making
investment decisions --- it\'s about creating what CEO Nir Bar Dea calls
a system that generates \"unique alpha\" uncorrelated with human
strategies.]{.underline}

[The firm\'s AIA (Artificial Investment Associate) Labs uses AI agents
to break down complex investment strategies while keeping human analysts
in the loop. This balance is crucial: AI processes vast amounts of data
to identify patterns, while humans provide oversight on risk management,
data acquisition, and trade execution. As Jensen notes, \"You\'re going
to have intelligence that can read every newspaper in the
world.\"]{.underline}