data/clean/H0734V-PDF-ENG__chunk0011.md, before:

# How We Use It

The first step of putting design fiction into practice involves crafting

scenarios of possible futures. For example, in a project with a major

car insurance company, we analyzed information from urban mobility

trends, autopilot flight modes, Luc Besson’s notorious movie The Fifth

Element, and interviews with early electric car adopters to develop

scenarios of possible futures. These atypical data sources help spotlight

less obvious aspects that would otherwise remain unnoticed in the

strategizing process. In this example, from talking to an airline pilot

we understood how the risks will be shifting in an autonomous driving

ecosystem. Bumper shocks and losing control of the vehicle will not

happen anymore, but new risks such as system hacking and break down

of vital sensors will arise.

Copyright © 2022 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

2

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H0734V-PDF-ENG__chunk0011.md, after:

---
source_path: H0734V-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c698590c0810ba6fb14babdc9d4fb794293cb974
title: H0734V-PDF-ENG
---
## HBR / Digital Article / Using Fiction to Find Your Strategy

Over the past seven years in working with about 50 executive teams

around the world, we’ve been experimenting with an alternative

approach to strategy: design fiction. Design fiction is a technique that

immerses executives and employees deeply in various possible futures,

and uses artifacts such as short movies, fictitious newspaper articles,

and imaginary commercials to generate transformation roadmaps.

Rooted in the future but helping to act in the present, design fiction

results in concrete actions taken to adjust companies’ visions, strategies,

and activities to create a better future.

Unlike many strategic foresight tools, design fiction does not attempt

to identify what is more likely to happen. Nor does it limit strategy

conversations to the C-suite; in fact a core component is the

participation of a wide range of stakeholders. Consequently, the teams

that we’ve seen deploy design fiction are able to formulate and shape

desirable futures that other tools do not enable people to see.
