data/clean/H078YM-PDF-ENG__chunk0012.md, before:

## HBR / Digital Article / Is Bad Onboarding Stifling Your New Senior Leaders?

transform the company’s HR function — everything from building more eﬃcient processes and strengthening data-driven decision making to

creating partnerships with business units and upgrading the talent

review cycle. He had a lot to learn.

The CEO recognized that bringing Rick up to speed on every aspect of

the business involved in these items would require extensive education

and would keep him from making meaningful progress on any of them

for six to 12 months at best. So instead, the CEO suggested that Rick

spend his ﬁrst three months focused on just one aspect of the talent

review cycle: improving the talent assessment process.

To do this, Rick still had to meet his team and other leaders and

learn about the business, but he did so with an eye toward reshaping

the way successors and top talents were identiﬁed, and how plans for

development and retention were put in place. Within his ﬁrst 100 days,

he was able to create a much more professional talent process for the

company and the board — and he also learned a lot about the company

in the process. With that knowledge, and a better understanding of

what it took to make change happen in the company, Rick then was

able to better shape his plans and priorities for the next 100 days and

beyond. In this way, onboarding became a form of continuous learning

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H078YM-PDF-ENG__chunk0012.md, after:

---
source_path: H078YM-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e104dac7f97023f6f7692a76da8c25cabb917907
title: H078YM-PDF-ENG
---
# individually or together.

Set a short-term challenge

Setting a 100-day, short-term results challenge for the new person

right from the beginning can help them get oriented while achieving

something of real value. This could be streamlining or strengthening

a key process or helping a sales team increase uptake for a particular

product, for example. Then, shape the onboarding process around this

goal. Have the leader get to know primarily the people and processes

that are critical for achieving it, rather than trying to meet everyone

and learn everything about the organization. This is impossible anyway

— and there is always time to meet the others later. (Michael Watkins

is one among many who have written extensively about how the ﬁrst

100-odd days are critical for new employees to make an impact.)

For example, several years ago the CEO of a global engineering ﬁrm brought in a new chief human resources oﬃcer from outside the

industry; I’ll call him Rick (not his real name). Although experienced in

HR, Rick was a ﬁrst-time CHRO and came into the job with a mandate to

Copyright © 2022 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

3

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
