data/clean/H07TPI-PDF-ENG__chunk0033.md, before:

# HBR / Digital Article / How to Avoid the Unexpected Consequences of Your DEI Policy

important to collect data on employees’ experiences at baseline (before

rollout) to compare with their experiences after policy implementation

- • •

DEI policies remain important ways to achieve positive improvements

in equality within organizations. These three steps — which take a

systems-level view of inequality — are purposeful, meaningful changes that managers can enact to design eﬀective and impactful DEI policies.

Of course, the research I present here is just a starting point. More is needed — particularly that accounts for diﬀerent actors’ perspectives

and the connections between them — to understand how DEI policies

can be designed to best help employees.

This article was originally published online on October 06, 2023.

Vanessa M. Conzon is an assistant professor of management and organization at Boston College, Carroll School of Management (conzon@bc.edu). Her research focuses on the intersections between work, autonomy, and diversity. She received her Ph.D. from MIT Sloan School of Management.

Copyright © 2023 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

7

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H07TPI-PDF-ENG__chunk0033.md, after:

---
source_path: H07TPI-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 980de3579fd441b2b7d5e9c6c8364c2e1085ef42
title: H07TPI-PDF-ENG
---
# promotions.

Some organizations have even started piloting their DEI initiatives before rolling them out organization-wide, and such eﬀorts can

improve policy quality by identifying issues before the policy has even

been oﬃcially implemented. Ericsson, a global telecommunications

company, tested a policy intervention aimed at improving women’s

interest in internal job openings. This testing helped Ericsson identify

the message that seemed most likely to decrease the gender gap.

And before rolling out a ﬂexible work policy more broadly, Boston

Consulting Group tested it with smaller groups of consultants. Here, it is

Copyright © 2023 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

6

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
