data/clean/H07US4-PDF-ENG__chunk0034.md, before:

# beneath the broader company’s eﬀorts.

The loving company doesn’t use performance ratings, because they see

each employee as so much more than a number. Nor do they have a

high-potential program, because they believe every single worker has

room to learn and grow, and that, as such, opportunities and advantages

should not be reserved for the precious few with “potential.”

The loving company is super attentive to transitions. For example, a

recent loving move by a few forward-thinking hospitals is the creation

of the hospitalist role. This is a doctor assigned to you when you’re

admitted, and whose job is twofold: First to explain what every other

medical specialist is doing to you and for you and why, and second, to

explain your needs, fears, and routines to the specialists.

The unloving hospital is one where you’re handed oﬀ from one nurse

to another, to a doctor, to a diﬀerent doctor, to an administrator, and

Copyright © 2023 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

8

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H07US4-PDF-ENG__chunk0034.md, after:

---
source_path: H07US4-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 83b22a30d403e7a31ec7dd440f2076cbf0c5e301
title: H07US4-PDF-ENG
---
## balance sheet. Call centers with manager-to-direct report ratios of 1 to

70 are unloving. As are, sadly and ironically, hospitals. As the CHRO of a

large health care system shared with me, their nurse supervisor to nurse

ratio is also 1 to 70. With those ratios, it’s little wonder that we have such

a burnout crisis and a nursing shortage. It’s almost as if hospitals have

turned a blind eye to what their nurses need to feel nourished at work.

The loving company has a strong alumni program. After all, if to treat

your people lovingly is to have an unwavering commitment to their

ﬂourishing, it follows that this commitment persists even after the

person leaves. The unloving company sees each person as merely a

means to an end, and so, once an employee leaves, it’s as though they

never existed. Their names are rarely brought up in meetings, and their

contributions, whatever they may have been, are quickly subsumed
