data/clean/H07VZN-PDF-ENG__chunk0016.md, before:

## HBR / Digital Article / Developing a Successful Business Strategy in China

undermines trust. Acknowledging this perception gap will help both

teams navigate it.

Global teams need recognize that there is a potentially large disconnect

between how China is perceived abroad and what your team

experiences on the ground. For China-based teams, recognize that

though negative perceptions of China may not be your fault, they

are your burden. If you do not integrate this recognition into how

you advocate for your business within your global company, you will

continue to lose out on resources and inﬂuence, with or without merit.

Transform general “China anxiety” into specific concerns, and then address those concerns as a global team.

Every headquarters we interact with right now has China anxiety — that

is, a hazy, free-ﬂoating discomfort with China and the China market

as a whole. This has been the case for years, of course, but it’s more

acute today than ever, and in many situations it’s leading to decision

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H07VZN-PDF-ENG__chunk0016.md, after:

---
source_path: H07VZN-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f6b911f06a523c89af74275ecac999e5360d7a47
title: H07VZN-PDF-ENG
---
## Acknowledge the unfavorable perception gap.

Globally, perceptions of China are at an all-time low. These perceptions

exert a continuously negative inﬂuence on global executives and teams,

who feel more and more estranged from the country and market they’re

meant to be working in.

Most China-based teams I speak with don’t understand the barrage of

negative news that their global colleagues are contending with — or

how that’s aﬀecting them and their country. If, as is often the case,

China-based teams submit over-positive market reports, it appears to

be irreconcilably at odds with the information HQ is taking in, which

Copyright © 2023 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

3

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
