data/clean/H07WKC-PDF-ENG__chunk0019.md, before:

## search and analytic power of the basic ChatGPT program.

In the next step, the AI leveraged, via a custom programmed interface,

the Blue Ocean framework connected to its basic programming to

identify which of the factors on the edited set should be eliminated,

reduced, raised, or created to produce a value proposition that

would attract the target noncustomers, presenting it as a 2D value

curve at the bottom of the screen that we could manually adjust

ourselves. Once adjusted, the AI exported the data for us to produce

a classic presentation-ready set of Blue Ocean value curves presenting

propositions that might attract noncustomers.

Mapping the ecosystem

Looking toward execution, we trained the AI to map the extended

ecosystems in which we would need to operate. The AI was quickly

able to present the leading players in the bakery industry generally

Copyright © 2023 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

4

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H07WKC-PDF-ENG__chunk0019.md, after:

---
source_path: H07WKC-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 81a8c8ca3b38ab1d7ba0e47803960d95061a0515
title: H07WKC-PDF-ENG
---
## HBR / Digital Article / Can GenAI Do Strategy?

and-go setup around Champs Elysees clubbing hubs could potentially

maximize untapped sectors eﬀectively.”

The AI also proposed diﬀerent approaches to reaching customers: “Oﬀer

not just bagels but an experience,” it suggested, and “Think about large

conferences or business meetings.” The AI further proposed adding

other American bakery items and sourcing local ingredients.

So how, exactly, should we be oﬀering bagels in Paris?

Building the value proposition

To develop a new value proposition, whatever your strategy process,

you ﬁrst have to identify the list of essential factors traditionally found

in the product/service oﬀering that your target market is using. This is

normally a time-consuming, tedious task. But the AI created a list of

factors for us to review and edit in less than a minute, leveraging the
