data/clean/H07YJT-PDF-ENG__chunk0014.md, before:

# HBR / Digital Article / How to Conduct Motivating Performance Reviews When Busine…

fuels future improvement. It also strengthens your employee’s sense

of purpose and commitment, and helps them see how to align their

priorities in the coming year with the organization’s objectives, she says.

Think like a coach. These discussions tend to be straightforward with

high-performing employees, but for those not performing at their best

expect some pushback or justiﬁcations for their performance. Sedatole

says that while you must “avoid making your employees feel penalized

or held accountable for things they don’t have any control over,” it’s

crucial to address their mistakes.

Mondal suggests adopting the approach of a football coach debrieﬁng

with a player after a challenging game played in bad weather. The player

might complain about the snow and the slippery ﬁeld, she says. “And as

a coach you need to say, ‘Yes, the conditions were tough. Here are three

things you did well during the game, and here are two things you could

have done better.’” By acknowledging what they did right under the

circumstances, but also where they can improve, you strike a balance

between recognition and constructive criticism. And remember: “If a

player is not doing well, it’s the coach’s responsibility to deal with it,”

she says.

Be transparent when addressing underperformance. How you

deal with an employee who’s consistently underperformed over the

year depends on many factors, including the nature of the job,

the employees’ capabilities, their willingness to improve, and your

bandwidth to support them and get back on track.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H07YJT-PDF-ENG__chunk0014.md, after:

---
source_path: H07YJT-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 73ace62572793cbb1ecaafc30fc897948250382f
title: H07YJT-PDF-ENG
---
## performance review conversation within the broader economic context.

“Acknowledge that there are factors that drive performance that are

outside the control of the employee and the organization,” she says.

Be pragmatic but also supportive. “Say: ‘These are the realities of the

environment that we have to weather and we are in this together.’”

Talking about the challenges of the rocky economy also allows you

to provide context for changes, for instance, “why the bonus pool is

lower this year,” says Mondal. Hopefully, this open communication

has been ongoing, and you’ve “recalibrated expectations based on

macroeconomic circumstances throughout the year,” she adds.

Help connect dots. Helping your team members understand how the

wider economy aﬀects the company’s performance is a good ﬁrst step.

Next, you need to guide them to see how their speciﬁc roles ﬁt into

the organization’s long term goals. “You want to make them think like

the business,” says Mondal. As the conversation progresses, Sedatole

suggests talking about how your employee’s day-to-day tasks and

projects contributed to the organization’s ﬁnancial results. Connecting

those dots allows them to more clearly “see how what they did over the

past year supported or undermined what the company achieved,” she

says. Last year’s performance is in the books, but having this clarity

Copyright © 2023 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

3

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
