data/clean/H081SB-PDF-ENG__chunk0028.md, before:

# HBR / Digital Article / When New Hires Get Paid More, Top Performers Resign First

in particular to avoid losing top performers, pay adjustments have to

happen fast.

. . .

The world of pay and compensation is incredibly complex. There are

countless factors to balance, and no guarantees of success — even

with the best of intentions. Moreover, while our research focused on

a general analysis of workforce behavior, prior work suggests that

inequities are likely further exacerbated by gender and racial biases. For

example, data from the Pew Research Center has shown that American

women still make just 82 cents for every dollar earned by men, and that

gap is even greater for Black and Hispanic women.

In addition, every organization faces its own unique challenges. While

our analyses highlight big-picture trends, they represent correlations,

not necessarily causal eﬀects, and they may not hold for all employers.

It’s up to individual organizations to analyze their own data to test

whether they see similar patterns and to identify any eﬀects that may be

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H081SB-PDF-ENG__chunk0028.md, after:

---
source_path: H081SB-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 553918f7dd0e46b6e281244e3b31ba6235876ea7
title: H081SB-PDF-ENG
---
## performance management systems to your informal norms and

company culture surrounding pay conversations. Does your HR

department depend on outdated, clunky software or slow-moving,

bureaucratic processes? If so, it’s going to struggle to keep up with

the rapidly evolving needs of its workforce. Similarly, are managers

accustomed to engaging in open and transparent conversations with

their reports about compensation and related concerns, or are these

topics so taboo that employees would rather just resign than attempt to

get the raise they feel they deserve?

Adopting more agile processes and mindsets can come with some

growing pains, but these transitions are critical for any employer to stay

competitive. After all, our research shows that to avoid attrition, and

Copyright © 2024 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

6

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
