data/clean/H08NU2-PDF-ENG__chunk0025.md, before:

# HBR / Digital Article / 3 Types of Silos That Stifle Collaboration—and How to Dismantle…

We recommend three key strategies for addressing root causes: aligning

goals, improving communication, and fostering secure data sharing.

Aligning goals ensures all departments work toward uniﬁed objectives,

enhancing collaboration. Improving communication keeps teams

informed and engaged, promoting cross-functional understanding.

Secure data sharing builds trust, encouraging open information

exchange. Each strategy targets a speciﬁc silo type, and its eﬀectiveness

depends on correctly matching it to the root cause.

Aligning goals.

At Goal-Diﬀ Beverage Co., the silo eﬀect stems from misaligned goals

between sales and manufacturing. Simply increasing communication

or securing data sharing won’t resolve the issue, as these eﬀorts

do not inherently align departmental objectives. Without uniﬁed

goals, communication can exacerbate tensions, and data sharing may

still leave teams working independently. Addressing this disconnect

requires top management to establish overarching goals that integrate

the needs of both departments. One eﬀective approach is sales and

operations planning (S&OP), which aligns sales, operational, and

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H08NU2-PDF-ENG__chunk0025.md, after:

---
source_path: H08NU2-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 23d4f734c304108e1f926bb9c4635b41154899a5
title: H08NU2-PDF-ENG
---
# How to Address the Silo Effect

Businesses must ﬁrst determine whether silos require immediate action

or a long-term strategic solution. Severe issues—such as customer service delays, cost overruns, or operational ineﬃciencies—may

necessitate short-term ﬁxes. A focused team led by senior management

can facilitate communication and ensure critical information ﬂows.

However, this provides only temporary relief, as misalignment, elitism,

or self-preservation behaviors will likely resurface. While useful for

stabilizing operations, short-term measures must lay the groundwork

for addressing root causes through strategic interventions.

Copyright © 2025 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

5

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
