data/clean/H08N0B-PDF-ENG__chunk0037.md, before:

# HBR / Digital Article / Does Returning to the Office Support Your Company’s Strategy?

This article was originally published online on February 20, 2025.

Ellen Ernst Kossek is the Basil S. Turner Distinguished Professor of Management Emerita at Purdue University and the 2025-2026 VMware Women’s Leadership Innovation Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University. She is editing a special issue on remote and hybrid work for Organization Science.

N. Sharon Hill is Professor of Management at the George Washington University School of Business. Her research aims to understand the positive and negative implications of diﬀerent virtual work arrangements (e.g., virtual teams, remote work, hybrid work) and the role of leadership at diﬀerent levels in virtual work success.

Isabel Villamor is an Assistant Professor at IESE Business School in the Managing People in Organizations Department. Her research seeks to understand how diﬀerent aspects of the contemporary workplace such as remote work or online professional networks aﬀect career equality.

Brenda A. Lautsch is the Beedie Professor of Management and Organization Studies at Simon Fraser University’s Beedie School of Business. Her current research examines work-life relationships, how ﬂexibility can be implemented to enhance work-life equity and inclusion, and how work and leisure can be more meaningful.

Matthew B. Perrigino is an Assistant Professor of Management at Baruch College’s Zicklin School of Business. His research interests address work-life ﬂexibility policies and work-life supportive leadership.

Copyright © 2025 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

10

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H08N0B-PDF-ENG__chunk0037.md, after:

---
source_path: H08N0B-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c147864eb13ddf43719c58fc25df31fb5c052e2a
title: H08N0B-PDF-ENG
---
## indicators—such as employee engagement, retention, and team

productivity—before and after manager training. Use these insights

to ﬁne-tune programs and provide ongoing manager coaching.

Too many ﬁrms treat remote and hybrid work as a temporary

adjustment or an afterthought, leading to inconsistent policies and

missed opportunities. It’s no surprise some are yet again backtracking

and adopting return-to-oﬃce mandates. But instead of jumping on or oﬀ the latest remote and hybrid work bandwagon, your company can

take a strategic, data-driven approach to embed remote and hybrid

work into your business. As demands to adapt to the rapidly-evolving

future of work intensify, the organizations that succeed won’t be the

ones haphazardly reacting to trends but those that thoughtfully act to

make hybrid and remote work as a core part of their strategy.

Copyright © 2025 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

9

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
