data/clean/H08OPG-PDF-ENG__chunk0010.md, before:

# crisis.

Why is this important for how we understand workplaces today?

The workplace is at its core a relational construct. It isn’t just an

oﬃce building or a digital network linking colleagues and work data.

It’s both and more. As a marketplace, its two important currencies

are productivity and social capital. As a social community, the critical

component is trust, which informs communication, collaboration, and

cohesion in work teams and sense of belonging to the organization.

The pandemic acted as a magnifying glass—it brought into view edge

conditions that were not really part of the mainstream world of work prior to it. It allowed us to experience the impact (and trade-oﬀs)

of “work from anywhere” enabled by technology. It also allowed us to experience ﬁrst-hand the impact (and trade-oﬀs) of constantly

Copyright © 2025 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

3

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H08OPG-PDF-ENG__chunk0010.md, after:

---
source_path: H08OPG-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ec013ec4dc46062c08b9287fa0b4cc595d30b287
title: H08OPG-PDF-ENG
---
## HBR / Digital Article / What Is the Office for Today?

organizations learned ﬁrsthand what this shift in workspace dynamic

would entail in concrete terms. The new knowledge developed in

this process changed perceptions and enriched our notions of what a

workspace could be. For many, this wasn’t just a response to a moment

in time, but an experience that shaped workplace culture entirely. A

point of no return, as we said last time.

Two outcomes, however, have surprised me.

The ﬁrst was people reconsidering the value they placed on their work,

their time, and how to spend both. The second was the exacerbation

of something younger adults and teenagers were already experiencing,

which extended to other generations: isolation. Studies have repeatedly

shown a high correlation between time spent on screens or social media

and an increase in rates of depression and perceived isolation—the

levels of which by 2023, the U.S. Surgeon General termed a public health
