data/clean/H08OIO-PDF-ENG__chunk0006.md, before:

## HBR / Digital Article / How to Prevent Strategy Fatigue

- A fashion company that keeps ﬂipﬂopping about its strategic

directionJennifer had been Senior Account Manager for a company

that sells high-end women’s fashion clothing, bags, and accessories.

She had been hired to “expand the business internationally via

wholesale” (B2B) and had identiﬁed a critical but complicated path to

make this happen. But after just two years she had left due to strategy

fatigue brought on by her CEO’s ﬂipﬂopping about corporate direction.

When I asked why the CEO kept changing course, Jennifer said she

“lacked a retail background, came from a large strategy consulting

ﬁrm, and didn’t have industry knowledge.” The CEO had trouble

staying on track with the plan and “changed the strategy every three

months,” switching from international expansion to extra focus on

retail (B2C), to opening more stores, to using a diﬀerent brand for a

certain product—to anything the board okayed. “The CEO was always

looking for a silver bullet to deliver unrealistic ﬁnancial results,”

Jennifer observed, none of which worked. In the end, the CEO was

ﬁred a year after Jennifer left.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H08OIO-PDF-ENG__chunk0006.md, after:

---
source_path: H08OIO-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 30238662ef23e184cfdbaf698fbc4bdd992c97f0
title: H08OIO-PDF-ENG
---
## The strategy-du-jour CEO in the opening story of a tech ﬁrm hinders

performance because she changes course “at a moment’s notice,”

chasing new ideas before the last one gained traction. Early on, this

approach created buzz and energy. But over time, employees grew

frustrated with the constant whiplash. One month, the priority was

international expansion; the next it was pivoting to a new product—all

without clear reasons. Productivity gave way to chaos. As one former

team member noted, “the CEO hit a wall and so did the company.”

This is strategy fatigue at its most acute: talented people rendered

ineﬀective because leadership can’t stick to a direction long enough to

reach a successful ﬁnish line.

Copyright © 2025 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

2

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
