data/clean/H08QO6-PDF-ENG__chunk0018.md, before:

## HBR / Digital Article / How to Delegate to Someone Who Doesn’t Report to You

Follow up without overstepping.

Checking on delegated work with peers requires ﬁnesse. Instead of

“Where are we at with this?” which may seem like checking up on them,

try, “Is there anything you need to keep this moving forward?” or “What

obstacles can we help clear?”

Rather than “Is this done yet?” try, “I’d love your thoughts on what

you’re seeing in the data so far” or “I’m curious how the new process is

working from your perspective.” Show you value their judgment, while

subtly getting details about the status.

Maybe they agreed to updates but you’re hearing nothing, or they

respond with vague answers. Refer back to your shared agreements:

“When we kicked oﬀ, we talked about weekly recaps. We count on those,

so what can we do to get those each Monday?” or ask, “When you say it’s

moving along, what stage are we at?”

. . .

At ﬁrst, sideways delegation can feel slower and more cumbersome than

handing something oﬀ to your team. But once trust is built and you’ve

dialed in your process, you can each achieve unprecedented results.

This article was originally published online on May 22, 2025.

Melody Wilding is an executive coach, human behavior professor, and author of Managing Up: How to Get What You Need from the People in Charge. Download a free chapter here.

Copyright © 2025 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

5

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H08QO6-PDF-ENG__chunk0018.md, after:

---
source_path: H08QO6-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d6b1b9f7a14a69f867dc7a8e2aa0e46ccd3e625a
title: H08QO6-PDF-ENG
---
# Address pushback with curiosity.

If your peer says they don’t have bandwidth, dig deeper: “Tell me more

about what your team is juggling right now.” Maybe you can extend the

timeline, break the work into smaller pieces, or take on more of the

up-front lift before handing it oﬀ.

If your colleague seems hesitant about the commitment, ask directly,

“What concerns do you have about taking this on?” Their reluctance

might stem from a past experience, a lack of clarity, or competing

priorities—things you can problem-solve together if surfaced.

And if the objection is, “This doesn’t feel like it should be our job,” stay

open. For example, say, “Help me understand what parts don’t feel like

a natural ﬁt?” If you still believe they’re the best owner, don’t shy away

from saying so. Try something like: “I hear your concerns. The thing is,

your team is already the go-to for this type of reporting. Bringing us in

would create confusion.”

Copyright © 2025 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

4

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
