data/clean/H08RGL-PDF-ENG__chunk0011.md, before:

## HBR / Digital Article / Research: When Help Isn’t Helpful

- 2. Optimistic Expectations and Lack of Accountability

Fuzzy asks often led help-seekers to assume their needs were

understood—and would be met. This created what we describe as

optimistic expectations: the belief that givers could solve the problem.

Givers often felt pressure to say yes but didn’t always follow through. In

Amy’s case, many agreed to help, so Amy hoped they would solve the

problem. She stopped working on other solutions. When givers failed to deliver, the problem had become that much more diﬃcult and urgent.

- 3. An Emotionally Charged Aftermath

Unhelpful help doesn’t just derail projects—it damages relationships

and morale. Recipients often felt misled and unsupported. In Amy’s

case, the lack of follow-through made her feel undervalued. As she put

it, “If Glow thinks this is what I’m all about, to make sense of things that

are all crazy and just to hold it together, I don’t want to. That shouldn’t

be my value here.”

Givers didn’t fare much better. Some felt their contributions were

ignored or misused. Without feedback, they couldn’t know whether

they’d made a diﬀerence—or how to improve next time.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/H08RGL-PDF-ENG__chunk0011.md, after:

---
source_path: H08RGL-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 77f719df53e583c3a6978c5602de827265346d49
title: H08RGL-PDF-ENG
---
# Why Unhelpful Help Happens

Our research identiﬁed three factors that contribute to unhelpful help:

- 1. Fuzzy Asks and Murky Understandings

In a culture where helping is expected, people ask for help often—but

not always clearly. This was Glow’s ﬁrst trap. Strong norms encouraged

asking for help, but people didn’t know how to ask for help eﬀectively.

Speciﬁcally, people didn’t want to seem too demanding, so they made

what we call fuzzy asks—vague, open-ended requests like “I just wanted

to get your input.”

As one designer in our study reﬂected, “Helping somebody help you is often quite diﬃcult when you’re overwhelmed with information and

you don’t know how to narrow down the question.”

Help-givers, in turn, were left guessing. One explained, “It was unclear

what the team wanted from me…I think it was more like, ‘Can you

come in and just be part of this discussion?’” The result? Murky

understandings that led to help that didn’t ﬁt the receivers’ needs.

Copyright © 2025 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

3

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
