data/clean/health_promotion_international_2023_38_1_11__chunk0016.md, before:

# L. Thissen et al.

Organizational and spatial-material dimensions of belonging and workplace health Our analysis clearly demonstrates that employees con- nect workplace health to the physical/psychological dimension of belonging. The relationship with organ- izational and spatio-material dimensions of belonging was less explicitly mentioned. However, we observed a strong relationship between the different dimensions of belonging.

(Un)belonging to the industrial production company Employees of the industrial production company shared that the company’s divisions and depart- ments all comprised different atmospheres which they commonly referred to as the different islands of the company. These islands were divided between the departments working in and around the factory, on one hand, and those working in the office buildings, on the other hand. The atmosphere on the islands was generally considered good. However, the connection between departments was experienced to be lacking, as an employee observed: ‘In earlier times, departments were more one, whereas now, people work for the suc- cess of each department, not so much for the whole company’ (field notes). The perceived island structure also impacted the mutual understanding for working conditions, like the understanding of office workers for the dangerous tasks operators perform:

Let them [from the office] walk along during shitty tasks in the heat, while wearing these combat suits. Here, we are always in the danger angle; nothing will happen to them. With this heat, they have air conditioning and call the canteen lady to bring them something to drink (field notes).

The island structure of the industrial production company resembles what Hsiao et al. (Hsiao et al., 2017) have called organizational distance to describe ‘the degree to which alliance members are similar or dissimilar in terms of demographic characteristics, such as business practices, operational mechanisms, corporate culture, and management style’ (p. 639). In the industrial production company this meant that, although working in a good and supportive atmos- phere within departments, employees experienced a large organizational distance between departments had to do with a lack of understanding.

Considering ways to reduce the organizational dis- tance, some employees suggested internal exchanges between departments to bridge the islands and to increase the mutual understanding:

(cid:68) (cid:111) (cid:119) (cid:110) (cid:111) (cid:97) (cid:100) (cid:101) (cid:100) (cid:32) (cid:102) (cid:114) (cid:111) (cid:109) (cid:32) (cid:104) (cid:116) (cid:116) (cid:112) (cid:115) (cid:58) (cid:47) (cid:47) (cid:97) (cid:99) (cid:97) (cid:100) (cid:101) (cid:109) (cid:99) (cid:46) (cid:111) (cid:117) (cid:112) (cid:46) (cid:99) (cid:111) (cid:109) (cid:47) (cid:104) (cid:101) (cid:97) (cid:112) (cid:114) (cid:111) (cid:47) (cid:97) (cid:114) (cid:116) (cid:105) (cid:99) (cid:101) (cid:47) (cid:51) (cid:56) (cid:47) (cid:51) (cid:47) (cid:100) (cid:97) (cid:97) (cid:100) (cid:48) (cid:54) (cid:49) (cid:47) (cid:55) (cid:49) (cid:57) (cid:57) (cid:52) (cid:55) (cid:54) (cid:32) (cid:98) (cid:121) (cid:32) (cid:103) (cid:117) (cid:101) (cid:115) (cid:116) (cid:32)

(cid:108)

(cid:105)

(cid:108)

(cid:111) (cid:110) (cid:48) (cid:57) (cid:83) (cid:101) (cid:112) (cid:101) (cid:109) (cid:98) (cid:101) (cid:114) (cid:32) (cid:50) (cid:48) (cid:50) (cid:53)

(cid:32)

(cid:32)

(cid:116)

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/health_promotion_international_2023_38_1_11__chunk0016.md, after:

---
source_path: health_promotion_international_2023_38_1_11.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a1e73ae0238c996649ccf33b472f074b200b4957
title: health_promotion_international_2023_38_1_11
---
# 6

health at work in a broader sense. In the production hall, we observed the vital role that colleagues played in signalling one another’s condition at a particu- lar moment, such as feeling stressed or anxious. An employee pointed out that he and the colleagues who sat next to him were able to read one another’s emo- tions and signal when they had to give one another some peace and quiet—something they all valued highly (field notes). We witnessed several times how the employees explained a colleague’s silence, frustration or absence to us, offered advice on how to approach a colleague, or warned us not to talk to a colleague: ‘Let her be; just leave her alone today’ (field notes).

During a training session for supervisors to signal stress in the work force, the trainers asked a supervisor to reflect on the aspects that boosted his own energy at work. In his speech, he summarized the main aspects:

the value of good collaboration with the team, a nice atmosphere with employees and colleagues, belonging, achieving results with a small work force, supporting employees in their personal devel- opment, freedom to make your work schedule, rec- ognition (supervisor’s speech).

The supervisor shared with the group that this did not mean that his batteries were always charged; there were moments that drained his energy, too. Nonetheless, he pointed out: ‘employees and col- leagues are important to discuss irritations then as well, to have coffee and to buckle down and start over’ (supervisor’s speech). According to him, col- leagues should cope with aspects that drain energy together, so they could keep their batteries charged. This speech illustrates the role that colleagues play in workplace health by creating a safe atmosphere where employees can be vulnerable toward each other and consider one another’s situations, thereby reducing of preventing stress or other health risks. We have observed this not only among production employees, but also among employees working at higher levels of the social workplace.

In both companies we observed that, at all levels of both companies, employees perceive workplace health as something you aim for together. It is a social practice that requires continuous maintenance, such as taking over tasks when a colleague is unable to perform them, signal- ling one another’s condition, feeling to be understood by colleagues and supervisors, and the satisfaction in pulling off a task together and reaching a goal. This maintenance work fosters a sense of belonging to (parts of) a company or a group of colleagues that produce buffers against physical/psychological risk factors at work. The physical/ psychological dimension of belonging thus seems to have a positive influence on workplace health.
