# (Un)belonging at work

self-expression of these aspects. Here, too, it is vital to be valued, needed and important to others and to feel you fit in.

Besides the dimension of organizational belonging, the spatio-material dimension plays a role at work, as shown by the study of Filstad et al. (Filstad et al., 2019). They analysed photos on ingredients of belong- ing for employees. These photos capture the value of social interactions (coffee breaks), materiality (build- ing, desk decorations, important objects for work routines), emotions (laughing colleagues) and aesthet- ics (anonymous buildings and empty corridors). The authors find that belonging is defined as a process of becoming part of something larger; as experiencing physical and symbolic boundaries at work; and as performing, engaging and participating in a workplace (pp. 128–129).

the physical/psychological dimension of belonging, acknowledged by Mattes and Lang (Mattes and Lang, 2021) as mutually con- nected to the organizational and spatio-material dimensions of belonging, seems to be lacking within the realm of work. Besides Eakin and MacEachen’s (Eakin and MacEachen, 1998) and Gunnarsdóttir and Björnsdóttir’s (Gunnarsdóttir and Björnsdóttir, 2003) research, little is known about the exact relations between these dimensions of belonging at work and their impact on perceived workplace health. We aim to fill this gap by bringing along these theoretical under- pinnings in our focus on workplace health to study how the three dimensions of belonging connect within the workplace and impact health. In the following, we first detail the research settings and methods. Next, our findings demonstrate how workplace health is experi- enced and produced as a social practice and show how this is closely intertwined with physical/psychologi- cal, organizational and spatio-material dimensions of belonging. The discussion reflects on the importance to understand (un)belonging as a workplace health issue and what implications this has for WHP research and practice.

To our knowledge,