data/clean/health_promotion_international_2023_38_1_11__chunk0023.md, before:

# 9

(cid:68) (cid:111) (cid:119) (cid:110) (cid:111) (cid:97) (cid:100) (cid:101) (cid:100) (cid:32) (cid:102) (cid:114) (cid:111) (cid:109) (cid:32) (cid:104) (cid:116) (cid:116) (cid:112) (cid:115) (cid:58) (cid:47) (cid:47) (cid:97) (cid:99) (cid:97) (cid:100) (cid:101) (cid:109) (cid:99) (cid:46) (cid:111) (cid:117) (cid:112) (cid:46) (cid:99) (cid:111) (cid:109) (cid:47) (cid:104) (cid:101) (cid:97) (cid:112) (cid:114) (cid:111) (cid:47) (cid:97) (cid:114) (cid:116) (cid:105) (cid:99) (cid:101) (cid:47) (cid:51) (cid:56) (cid:47) (cid:51) (cid:47) (cid:100) (cid:97) (cid:97) (cid:100) (cid:48) (cid:54) (cid:49) (cid:47) (cid:55) (cid:49) (cid:57) (cid:57) (cid:52) (cid:55) (cid:54) (cid:32) (cid:98) (cid:121) (cid:32) (cid:103) (cid:117) (cid:101) (cid:115) (cid:116) (cid:32)

(cid:108)

(cid:105)

(cid:108)

(cid:111) (cid:110) (cid:48) (cid:57) (cid:83) (cid:101) (cid:112) (cid:101) (cid:109) (cid:98) (cid:101) (cid:114) (cid:32) (cid:50) (cid:48) (cid:50) (cid:53)

(cid:32)

(cid:32)

(cid:116)

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/health_promotion_international_2023_38_1_11__chunk0023.md, after:

---
source_path: health_promotion_international_2023_38_1_11.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5564fab0d448890fb1d9740d4031bbd7d47dd521
title: health_promotion_international_2023_38_1_11
---
## CONCLUSION: (UN)BELONGING AS AN INGREDIENT OF WORKPLACE HEALTH

This paper aimed to elucidate how belonging and health are related within the realm of the workplace. Knowing that individual measures of WHP have lit- tle success, we aimed to grasp what workplace health entails by zooming in on everyday life dynamics and practices in two companies in the Netherlands.

First, we have found that workplace health is fun- damentally social. Our examples show that workplace health is constructed by social practices among col- leagues that care for each other, work on tasks together and are able to signal each other’s state of mind. Put simply, in order to perform or produce, employees need to feel good. For employees to feel good, we have shown that, contrary to mainstream individualized WHP activities, social aspects are key. This resonates with the physical/psychological dimension of belong- ing that implies being valued, needed or important and the feeling of fitting in as fostering our perceived health and contributing to our psychological and social resil- ience (cf. Hagerty et al., 1992; Baumeister and Leary, 1995; Mattes and Lang, 2021).

Second, our data suggest that there is more than only the feelings of belonging to colleagues in order to feel good at work. Employees of both companies also referred to organizational aspects that impacted their perceptions and experiences of workplace health, such as being appreciated by managers and having

the feeling that their expertise was involved in deci- sion-making. While these aspects could also be asso- ciated with Hagerty et al.’s (Hagerty et al., 1992) definition of belonging, these were aspects aligning with a higher organizational level. This level is similar to Yuval-Davis’ conceptualization of political dimen- sions of belonging that construct, claim, justify or resist forms of socio-spatial inclusion and exclusion (Yuval- Davis, 2006, p. 204). In our case, the organizational dimension of belonging was about the extent to which employees felt being needed, valued or important and felt to fit in within the integral system of the organi- zation. In relation to workplace health, this political dimension of belonging may boost confidence and the sense of belonging together, while a lack of recognition may result in frustration and demotivation, showing how organizational dynamics affect employees’ per- ceived health at work.

Lastly, where the previous two dimensions of belonging are mostly social and procedural or demo- cratic (in terms of involving employees in decisions), our data point out how experiences of belonging and unbelonging are also mediated through spatiality and materiality. Like Filstad et al. (Filstad et al., 2019), we have shown how this spatio-material dimension of belonging can be produced through physical dis- tance between departments, access restrictions and clothing. Yet, the paper goes further in arguing that such aspects produce and maintain constellations of belonging and unbelonging that, in turn, feed into employees’ perceptions and experiences of workplace health.

The strengths of this paper are found in its holis- tic approach to workplace health instead of studying social relations at work, health or health at work in isolation. The methodological underpinnings of our study facilitate such an approach, since ethnographic research methods are well suited for a grounded and open inquiry of workplaces that allows under- standing the interconnections and dynamics of daily practices. As such, we hope to have deepened previ- ous understandings (Eakin and MacEachen, 1998; Gunnarsdóttir and Björnsdóttir, 2003) of how social relations contribute to workplace health. By bringing different disciplines together, this paper has come to understand the relation between belonging and health as having physical/psychological, organizational and spatio-material dimensions. More importantly, we have brought insights from these disciplines to the workplace in order to see how workplace health is exactly experienced and how belonging, or not, con- tributes to this.

At the same time, a possible weakness of our study could be that we only conducted fieldwork in two organizations. On the one hand, this has provided the
