# RESEARCH SETTINGS

In order to develop new approaches to WHP that include companies’ specific work settings and attune to the life worlds of employees, the first two authors carried out ethnographic-participatory fieldwork in two companies in the Netherlands. Three qualitative pilot studies in both companies showed that many employees valued their health and were interested in it, yet few participated in activities (Breugelmans, 2017; Schroeten, 2017; Van Aert, 2018).

The first setting is an industrial production company with (at the time of the fieldwork) 150 employees, of

whom 50 worked as factory operators in five shifts (day and night), and the rest worked in daytime in departments such as maintenance, quality control, HR, HSE, sales and logistics. In 2015, the company introduced a vitality programme, covering a range of activities, such as trainings by a vitality coach, fitness, smoking cessation support, offering fruit in the work- place and workshops on mental health, nutrition and sleeping. The organized activities were mainly attended by employees working in daytime departments rather than those working in day and night shifts.

The second setting is a social workplace company. At the time of the fieldwork, the social workplace had ~1200 employees, of whom 100 were ‘regular’, while the others had limited prospects for entry to the regu- lar labour market, due to various kinds of disabilities and/or ailments. They obtain support and guidance to find work and on-the-job training in order to use their capacities and talents within the company or to second them to other companies. Employees perform a broad variety of tasks in different divisions: assembly and packing tasks, wheel assemblage, basic administrative tasks, cleaning and services such as public gardening. Over the last few years, the social workplace offered health promotion activities to its employees, includ- ing health checks, smoking cessation programmes, diet workshops, subsidized fitness and a bicycle plan, yet not many employees were aware of the activities’ existence.

The nature of each setting (industrial production company and social workplace) and the primary pro- duction processes influenced work hierarchies, reg- ulations (i.e. safety, general conduct) and interaction between colleagues and departments. Yet, our analysis demonstrates that dimensions of belonging have a sim- ilar impact on how the employees of both companies experience their health at work.