## How to Give Negative Feedback to Your Direct Reports

https://hbr.org/2023/07/how-to-give-negative-feedback-to-your-direct-reports

5/8

reports to really hear you, you must help them feel safe bydelivering your feedback with care.To do so, always start the conversation by explaining why you’dlike to give this person feedback. Reiterate that you’re eager tohelp them grow, and that you’re on their side. Then, share a pieceof positive feedback — what actions would you like them toreplicate in the future? Next, share the feedforward and expresswhat they could do better next time. Finish the conversation byasking them what they would do differently and offer your help.Having a script for exactly what you’d like to say can makeapproaching the conversation a little easier for you, and yourdirect report. Here’s an example of what you might say:Hi Adam,Thank you for making time to talk through the client meeting wehad this morning. It was important to me that we made time to talkbecause I want you to succeed, and I want to enable you to do yourbest work.You did an excellent job establishing a fast connection with theclient — your ability to build strong relationships quickly makesyou such an asset to this team.Next time, it would be great if you sent out an agenda ahead of time.That would help us all to stay on track and have a productivemeeting. You should also aim to collect more backgroundinformation about the client’s industry and challenges before themeeting so we can properly discuss.What other ideas do you have for our next client meeting, and howcan I support you?