## How to Self-Promote (When You Don’t Like to Self-Promote)

https://hbr.org/2023/06/how-to-self-promote-when-you-dont-like-to-self-promote

10/13

strategic partners. Use your unique value proposition to guideyou.You should also sell your self-development. Communicate howthis new role or position fits into your career plan. Here, be sure tospeak clearly about the skills, experiences and capabilities youwill build to increase your value to the organization.Leverage all available communication channels.Internal channels. In addition to face-to-face meetings, you canconsistently leverage other internal communication channels atyour company to increase your visibility. Depending on yourlevel, you may have access to different channels — whether theseare more formal quarterly town hall meetings, monthlynewsletters, and internal media (like podcasts and videos) ormore informal and smaller-scale department meetings, Slackchannels, and group email threads.Create an audit of the internal communication channels availableto you and use them to self-promote. For example, if you’re a teamor project leader, you might use them to speak about your keyinitiatives, goals, and results. Celebrate your achievements,recognize your team and partners, and keep key stakeholders andinfluencers informed of your progress and leadership successes.By generating awareness of your accomplishments and makingyourself known within the right circles, you increase your chancesof being top of mind when key progression discussions happen.External channels. Outside of your organization, you can leverageyour own social media business channels such as LinkedIn andTwitter. For example, on LinkedIn, you can create a post to shareyour accomplishments and build your professional reputation orbrand. Sharing pictures, videos, links, or visuals will give a morepersonal view to your successes. To maximize your impact, you