## How to Self-Promote (When You Don’t Like to Self-Promote)

clear and concise statement that communicates the uniquebenefit that a product, service, or individual offers to their targetaudience. For professionals, it’s a way to communicate thespecific benefits, attributes, or strengths that set you apart fromyour peers or competitors. It will indicate why your managershould choose you over others for a promotion or careeradvancement opportunity. Be sure to quantify your statementswith examples of your work or metrics that will serve as evidencefor your strong performance.While you won’t necessarily be sharing this statement withothers, it will serve as the foundation of your self-promotion pitchin future conversations. In the end, it’s most important that you’reclear on what you can offer, what you have accomplished so far,and whom you have become as a leader. You will use these datapoints to get your boss and other supporters on board later on.The following script is an example of a unique value propositionfor a marketing professional:I have the unique ability to combine strategic thinking,creativity, consumer insights and data analysis to developand execute award-winning marketing campaigns. I have aproven track record of creating marketing plans (project x, yand z) that not only attract new customers but also drivesales and revenue growth by x%.Understanding target audiences, including their insightsand purchase behavior, and translating these into messagingare at the core of who I am as a marketer and my competitiveadvantage. This allows me to make my consumers feel seenthrough personalized and engaging experiences that speakto their values and life-stage.

https://hbr.org/2023/06/how-to-self-promote-when-you-dont-like-to-self-promote

8/13

Personally, I realize the value that mentorship has had in myown career, and that’s why I volunteer to lead our leadershipacademy to develop the new generation of leaders. As amanager, I coach and empower my team to succeed andlearn by doing. My ability to collaborate, motivate, andinspire cross-functional teams and agency partners hasallowed me to deliver exceptional results beating categorybenchmarks.Develop your future career plan. The last step before approachingyour boss is knowing what opportunity you want to secure. What’syour long-term goal and what next step will put you on the pathtowards it? For example, maybe your long-term goal is to becomea vice president and you believe the next step in your journey isbecoming a senior manager. Or perhaps the next step is smaller: astretch project, greater autonomy, leading a bigger team.Whatever opportunity you seek, you need to be able tocommunicate it’s going to help both you develop and increaseyour impact within the organization. It’s a two-way street:Advancing your career means you can continue to deliver withgreater returns for the business. By emphasizing how the new rolealigns with your career goals and enables you to make a moresignificant contribution to your company, you can make acompelling case for your candidacy.3. Take ActionEnlist supporters. After self-reflection, data gathering, analysisand planning, it’s time to speak with the

decision-makers andinfluencers in your company. The most important conversationwill be with your direct manager. But it’s also important for you toconnect with other key stakeholders (usually people managersfrom your function or cross-functional teams) who will likely takepart in promotion and career advancement discussions. If you gettheir support, you’ll be in good shape.