## Athlete Leadership and Team Effectiveness

the appointed captains are not perceived as good leaders by their teammates, their leadership is not likely to be effective [10]. Therefore, it is important for a coach to consider this choice well.

In this vein, Cotterill and Fransen [6] carried out a review that revealed some key character- istics of athlete leaders. Some examples are ambition, competitiveness, responsibility, seniority in the team, team tenure, skill level, and often, these leaders also occupy a central position [6, 8, 36]. However, the most important aspect identified was for leaders to be accepted by their teammates; in other words, to have a large support base in the team [6, 51, 53]. This latter aspect is the key assumption in the Shared Leadership Mapping process, developed by Fransen et al. [54]. This process is based on the perceptions of the team members (rather than on the coach’s perception) and uses social network analysis to map leadership perceptions in the team. The resulting network clearly identifies the best leaders in a specific role (i.e., those who are perceived as best leaders by their teammates) at the center of the network. Hence, the coach has all the information not only to appoint the adequate number of leaders (based on our study findings) but also to identify the suitable athletes to fulfill the job. As the process ensures that these leaders have a large support base in their team, their leadership has the high- est chance of being successful.

Once these leaders have been appointed, and an effective structure of shared leadership has

thus been implemented, the second challenge to tackle is how to further improve the leader- ship potential of the appointed leaders. One of the latest trends in leadership research, based on the social identity approach to leadership [53], emphasizes the importance of a leader’s abil- ity to build a shared identity within the team; in other words, a shared feeling of “we” and”us” [52, 55]. Fransen et al. [52] and Slater et al. [55] relied on these principles to design interven- tions aimed at strengthening these identity leadership competencies in the appointed athlete leader. More specifically, in the 5RS Shared Leadership Program of Fransen et al. [52], based on Shared Leadership Mapping (as explained above), the appointed leaders are taught how to create, embody, advance, and embed a collective sense of ‘us’ in their teams. To achieve this aim, the appointed athlete leaders, together with their teams, are guided through five phases, each focusing on one core question; (1) the Readying phase (Why does “we” matter?–A gen- eral introduction session); (2) the Reflecting phase (Who are we?–Identifying the team’s core values); (3) the Representing phase (What do we want to be?–Identifying the team’s aspira- tions); (4) the Realizing phase (How do we become what we want to be?–Implementing the strategies to achieve the team goals); and (5) the Reporting phase (Are we becoming what we want to be?–Monitoring progress towards team goals). Despite the initial validation of the effectiveness of these intervention programs, more research is required to explore its generaliz- ability in different sports, at different competitive levels, and in different cultures.