---
source_path: how_many_leaders_does_it_take_to_lead_a_sports_team_the_relationship_between_the.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f7a7963bf99a664b359c09e102f26054e99f666d
title: how_many_leaders_does_it_take_to_lead_a_sports_team_the_relationship_between_the
---
## Athlete Leadership and Team Effectiveness

These findings are in line with earlier findings in the organizational setting, demonstrating that shared leadership explains a unique variance in team effectiveness (i.e., behavioral pro- cesses and emergent states, attitudes, perceived performance and objective performance) over and above that of vertical leadership [2, 18]. However, there is still a knowledge gap when it comes to what degree of shared leadership is optimal. In fact, shared leadership covers a broad continuum, ranging from the coach sharing the leadership with one leader (e.g., team captain) to the situation in which all athletes occupy a leadership role. Furthermore, leadership can be shared across leadership roles (i.e., where different people occupy the three leadership roles) but also within each leadership role (e.g., having more than one task leader).

To analyze the current situation in sports teams, our first aim was to analyze the number of leaders within sports teams in each of the three leadership roles (i.e., task, social, and external leader). This will allow us to determine the athlete leadership structure that exists in sports teams [6, 8]. Evidence supporting this aim was found by Loughead et al. [8], who revealed in this respect that, on average, 15% of all players in a team are perceived as task leaders, 11% as social leaders, and 8% as external leaders. Fransen et al. [15] found in their study that the num- ber of external leaders was lower than the number of task and social leaders. Furthermore, Fransen [19] examined the number of leaders within a specific role. Her findings revealed that teams had more task leaders than social or external leaders. But given that her sample was so small, no reliable conclusions could be made. In the present study we wanted to replicate these findings by examining a larger sample within soccer. Given the lack of previous reliable evi- dence on the exact number of leaders in a team on the different leadership roles, we decided not to formulate an a priori hypothesis.

Shared leadership and team effectiveness

More important than the number of leaders in each leadership role is knowing what the most effective leadership structure is. Our next research aim is thus to achieve more insight about the optimal number of leaders in each role. We will ground our hypotheses on the findings of two previous studies examining this question, relating the number of leaders with variables associated with better team effectiveness (i.e., behavioral processes, attitudes, and perceived performance). First, Eys et al. [20] identified the optimal number of leaders in university teams. Their results suggested that, when teams had an equal number of athlete leaders in each of the three leadership roles (regardless of how many leaders fulfilled the role), athletes in these teams rated higher satisfaction with their integration in the team and with the team’s perfor- mance. A second study was conducted by Fransen [19] in a sample of 267 athletes playing on soccer, volleyball, and basketball teams. The author examined the relationship between the number of leaders in the different leadership roles and two team-level variables related to team effectiveness, namely task and social cohesion [2]. The results revealed that the greater the number of leaders in each leadership role, the better the task and social cohesion within the team.

Given the contrasting findings of the two studies, our aim is to test this research question in a larger sample, while also including a broad variety of outcome variables, both at the individ- ual level (i.e., role clarity, role conflict, intention to continue) and at the team level (i.e., cohe- sion, team conflict, collective efficacy, team performance). These variables were selected because they allowed us to assess the different types of team effectiveness identified by Wang et al. [2], namely (a) behavioral processes (i.e., role clarity, role conflict, cohesion, team con- flict, and collective efficacy), (b) attitudes (i.e., intention to continue), and (c) perceived perfor- mance. Also, previous research indicated a close relationship of the above variables with performance [21–25]. More specifically, with respect to behavioral processes, it has been

PLOS ONE | https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0218167 June 10, 2019

3 / 22
