---
source_path: ijem_06_2020_0290_proof_397_418.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b91336f350f1ce1d7efa195070b1adcdcfd0db2a
title: ijem_06_2020_0290_proof_397_418
---
# p values

0.000 0.001 0.000 0.003 0.000

0.007 0.000

0.000 0.000

results of our study may attract researchers’ attention to the importance of inclusive leadership in encouraging extra-role behaviors in higher education settings.

Ourresultsindicateimportantpracticalimplicationsforhighereducationorganizationsin generaland thePalestinianacademic sectorinspecific. First,leadership inclusivenessshould be adopted in the mindset of university managers, as it increases administrators’ consciousness in relation to the creation of a systematic multicultural environment. Second, inclusive leadership creates opportunities for academics to engage in the decision- making process, which implies that they will act in a collaborative and participatory manner and will go beyond their required work in terms of extra-role behaviors. Managers of higher education organizations should highlight inclusion mindset and diversity tolerance when recruiting leaders at their organizations. Moreover, higher education institutions should reinforce the concept of inclusion, through training, seminars and workshops. On another note, organizational learning should be effectively employed to produce knowledge and provoke change. University managers might use organizational learning as a framework to understand how universities develop strategies, make decisions, and foster extra-role performance among their employees. Consequently, universities are called to promote organizational learning within both the academic and administrative aspects of university life.Universitiesshouldalsoprovideavenuesforcontinuousdialogueandcollaborationsince this will result in fruitful outcomes at both organizational and individual levels.

More specifically, the Palestinian higher education institutions are invited to consider important implications of inclusiveness at their workplace. Leaders in these institutions need to visualize inclusion as means to foster a diversity-inclusive civic culture, as this simulates learning climate and discretionary behaviors among academic staff. organizational Therefore, inclusive leaders’ strategies need to encourage institutional capacity building in order to provide academic members a voice in the institutional climate, which would increase theorganizationalmembers’familiaritywiththeneedforinclusion.Thiscanbedonethrough the introduction of training centers and networks aimed at reinforcing the concept inclusiveness and its value for the academic community and society in general. Inclusive leadership activities need to concentrate on changing the work environment through engaging the minority of the academic members (i.e. in terms of religion or gender) to act as diversity change agents. For instance, activities may include appointing women for administrative roles devoted to form and define the academic work in these institutions. Furthermore, these institutions are called upon establishing diversity and inclusion identifiable offices like vice president office for diversity and inclusion. These offices would bring fruitful results in promoting the image of the work climate that welcomes diversity and increasing minority’ loyalty and commitment to the organization. In addition, as inclusive leaders have the potential of transforming these institutions into inclusive learning organizations and inclusive leadership practices can bring useful social capital implications through encouraging social relationships between diverse academic members (e.g.age,sexandreligion). Thiswouldalsohaveitspositiveeffecton strengtheningthesocial networks and fabric of the whole society.

Limitations and future research Some limitations in this research need to be highlighted to provide future research opportunities. First, our data were collected from one source. Although the authors have followed some remedial procedures in order to reduce the common method bias, the authors call for future research to collect data from multiple sources, including supervisors’ ratings. Second, our research examined the impact of inclusive leadership on extra-role behaviors via only organizational learning. Future studies might consider other mediating factors which might play an intervening role among the examined relationships. Mediating factors such as

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:51)(cid:54)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:55)(cid:47)(cid:57)(cid:48)(cid:51)(cid:55)(cid:51)(cid:54)(cid:47)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:54)(cid:45)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:57)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)
