---
source_path: ijem_06_2020_0290_proof_397_418.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4bb8d4366043884691c6a49e8244b9a5d62aefc6
title: ijem_06_2020_0290_proof_397_418
---
# IJEM 36,4

presence of servant leaders as suggested in previous studies (i.e. Aboramadan et al., 2020a, b; Dahleezetal.,2020),theauthorsbelievethatfutureacademicleadershipneedstobeinclusive, inspiring and purposive in order to enable the higher education institutions to keep functioning and encourage academic staff to display extra-role behaviors to overcome the challenges encountered. In addition, inclusive leadership featured by dialogic approach will bringconsiderablepracticalandintellectualvaluetothecontinuousgrowthofthePalestinian academic institutions.

400

Theoretical background and hypotheses formulation Inclusive leadership and OCB Komives et al. (2013), in their model, introduced five relational leadership types: inclusive, ethical, empowering, purposeful and process-oriented leadership. While empowering leaders provide employees the opportunity to be part of the decision making through empowering them, ethical leaders are driven by values while leading others, purposeful leaders have commitment toward achieving goals, process-focused leaders manage groups process through a system perspective (Komives et al., 2013) and inclusive leaders demonstrate openness, inclusiveness, accessibility and interactive communications with employees (Carmeli et al., 2010). Similarly, Hollander (2009) has mentioned that the focus of inclusive leaders is to listen and pay attention to employees’ needs and to transmit the feeling to employees that the leader is available to them. In different terms, inclusive leadership is characterized bycontinuous support tofollowers, opencommunication, providingassistance and help and showing concern for others’ interests (Carmeli et al., 2010; Hollander, 2009).

In contrast with many other types of leadership which may be conceptually connected, inclusive leadership possess a distinct style of recognition, belonging, inclusiveness and identity (Randel et al., 2018). Inclusive leaders are more concerned with their followers’ needs and interests (Hollander, 2009). While transformational leadership is oriented toward developing and motivating followers toward achieving the goals of the organization (Dvir et al., 2002), inclusive leadership emphasizes on embracing followers for who they are, enablingthemtoapplytheirspecifictalentsandskillsandempoweringthemtoparticipatein daily organizational activities. Furthermore, although servant leadership is dedicated to enablingfollowers togrowand develop(Lidenet al., 2008),inclusive leadership iscentered on the followers’ needs for availability and openness. Empowering leadership is characterized by example-based leadership, authority’ sharing, coaching and mentoring (Srivastava et al., 2006), whereas inclusive leadership promotes the sense of inclusiveness, access, openness and quality. Given the previous discussion, there is a minimum overlap between inclusive leadership and other existing forms of leadership. This implies that the other forms of existing conceptualizations of leadership do not completely articulate and capture the core concepts of inclusive leadership (Randel et al., 2018).

Organizational citizenship behavior (OCB)is a discretionary behavior, neither written in a contract as part of the employee’s responsibilities nor recognized in formal reward schemes (Alge et al., 2006; Organ, 1990; Xerri and Brunetto, 2013). In general, employees who display OCB perform beyond what is required from them (Danish et al., 2014). According to Organ (1988), OCB has five dimensions: conscientiousness (going beyond the least required), altruism, (assisting others with their tasks), civic virtue (the ability to become involved in organizational life), sportsmanship (broad-minded behavior in undesirable situations) and courtesy (efforts exerted to avoid problems related to working with others). Although OCB has been demonstrated to be positively related to lower turnover intentions, higher job performance and elevated levels of job satisfaction, the topic has not received great attention from researchers into higher education organizations (Bauwens et al., 2019). Among the few studies, Wilkins et al. (2018) found that organizational identification positively influences

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:51)(cid:54)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:55)(cid:47)(cid:57)(cid:48)(cid:51)(cid:55)(cid:51)(cid:54)(cid:47)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:54)(cid:45)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:57)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)

OCB within UK university campuses. In addition, Bauwens et al. (2019) found that performance fairness is positively related to OCB among academic staff in Belgium. Lawrence et al. (2012) found that some job characteristics affect the OCB of academic staff hired within a state higher education institution. Panicker et al. (2018) discovered that an inclusive workplace and OCB are positively correlated in a higher education setting. Finally,AdewaleandGhavifekr(2019)foundthatOCBamongNigerianlecturersispositively impacted by leadership self-efficacy.

As leadership is perceived to be a common antecedent to OCB (Podsakoff et al., 2000), the authors predict that inclusive leadership may yield positive effects on academics’ OCB for two reasons. First, building on social exchange theory, known as “SET”, (Blau, 1964), it is believed that when followers perceive the supportive behaviors of their inclusive leader, this will motivate them to repay the leader and the organization through showing positive behaviors (Wang, 2008). The displaying of OCB among employees is one of the ways to reciprocate (Organ, 1988). This issupported by Liu (2009), who has argued that good support from a leader is fundamental to the development of extra-role behaviors. Second, the links between inclusive leadership and followers’ OCB can be explained by the relational leadership theory (Hollander, 1964), which addresses leadership as “a shared experience, a voyage through time” and the leader is not a sole voyager, he also says that “a major component of the leader–follower relationship is the leader’s perception of his or her self- relative to followers, and how they in turn perceive the leader” (p. 55). Therefore, the behaviors of helping and being available of inclusive leaders will then be perceived as role model behaviors by employees, which in turn will encourage them to display the same supportive behaviors to their colleagues (Carmeli et al., 2010). Empirically, Tran and Choi (2019) uncovered a positive link between inclusive leadership and OCB among service workers in Vietnam. To this end, the following hypothesis is posited:

H1.

Inclusive leadership is positively associated with academics’ OCB.

Inclusive leadership and IWB Innovative workbehavior(IWB) reflectsinnovationbehaviorswhich occurindifferentphases: the first phase is when employees explore and generate novel ideals and solutions (Amabile etal.,1996;XerriandBrunetto,2013).Thesecondphaseisrelatedtoideachampioning,inwhich employees try to secure others’ support for their ideas (Dorenbosch et al., 2005). In the final phase, employees try to implement these ideas, with the aim of benefiting the organization (De Jong and Den Hartog, 2010). IWB is a risk-bearing, nonroutine behavior in which followers try to avoid classical ways of thinking (Kesselet al., 2012). Despite the fact that research on IWB is verylimitedinthehighereducationcontext,someendeavorshaveattemptedtoinvestigatethe effect of ethical work and social capital on IWB among Pakistani teachers in higher education (ShahabandImran,2018)andtoexaminetheimpactofpsychologicalempowermentonIWBof lecturers in Malaysian polytechnics (Ghani and Jusoff, 2009).

On another note, leadership has been regarded as a change agent in organizations (Amabile, 2013; Krause, 2004) and has been found to play a significant role in cultivating employees’ IWB(Afsaretal., 2014;Karatepe etal., 2020;ScottandBruce, 1994).Basedon this, the authors predict that inclusive leadership supportive behaviors would positively contribute to IWB for the following reasons. First, when inclusive leaders pay attention to thefeelingsandinterestsoftheiremployees(Javedetal.,2019),employeesshowhighlevelsof energyandcommitmenttotheirleadersandthusaremorelikelytopayback,exhibitingIWB (Piccoloetal., 2010;Walumbwaetal., 2011). Thiscorresponds towhat hasbeenfound inSET, in which employees feel the need to reciprocate by engaging in innovative behaviors in exchange for the supportive behaviors demonstrated by their leaders (Yeh-Yun Lin and Liu, 2012). Furthermore, the relational leadership theory of Hollander (1964) implies that the

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:51)(cid:54)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:55)(cid:47)(cid:57)(cid:48)(cid:51)(cid:55)(cid:51)(cid:54)(cid:47)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:54)(cid:45)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:57)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)
