---
source_path: ijem_06_2020_0290_proof_397_418.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e73e3f76d92c6a918da3b4630960c76ee27664b3
title: ijem_06_2020_0290_proof_397_418
---
# IJEM 36,4

relationship between the leader and the member is a two-way influence in which there are social exchangeable transactions between the leader and the member. Hence, when inclusive leaders show support and availability (Ashikali et al., 2020; Ryan, 2006), this will motivate followers to engage in innovative behaviors (Altuno(cid:3)glu and Bulgurcu G€urel, 2015; Carmeli etal.,2010).Empirically,anumberofstudiesfoundthatinclusiveleadershippositivelyaffects IWB (Javed et al., 2018, 2019; Qi et al., 2019). Given the above discussion, the following hypothesis can be posited:

402

H2.

Inclusive leadership is positively associated with academics’ IWB.

Inclusive leadership and organizational learning According to Garvin (1993), organizational learning refers to the process through which organizations create, acquire and transfer knowledge to reflect new knowledge and ideas. A innovation and learning organization is characterized by teamwork, cooperation, information-based processes (Confessore and Kops, 1998). According to Marsick and Watkins (2003), a learning organization has seven dimensions: “continuous learning, inquiry and dialogue, collaboration and team learning, people empowerment for the people dimension, environmental connection, embedded systems, and strategic leadership”. Jensen (2005) has recently underlined the importance of the learning organization because of its capacitytocreateknowledgethroughmotivatingemployeestotransferinformationintonew knowledge. In general, research on learning organization in higher education institutions is limited (Voolaid and Ehrlich, 2017), and the area of examining the relationship between organizational learning and work-associated factors in higher education institutions has not yet been addressed (Dee and Lei(cid:1)syt_e, 2016; Voolaid and Ehrlich, 2017). Notably, few studies have employed organizational learning as a theoretical foundation to generate novel empirical work in a higher education context (Dee and Lei(cid:1)syt_e, 2016).

Concerning the association between inclusive leadership and organization learning, the authors predict that leadership inclusiveness positively contributes to organizational learning. Because the inclusive leader is open to listening to followers’ feedbacks and inputs, this generates a feeling among followers that the leader appreciates discussion and information sharing (Tran and Choi, 2019). Hence, when the leader offers an opportunity for the expression of ideas and views, this encourages followers to speed up their knowledge acquisition and dissemination (Zagor(cid:1)sek et al., 2009). Furthermore, the availability of the leader to assist and support others motivates followers to enhance their dedication to continuous learning (Choi et al., 2015). Consequently, inclusive leaders create an atmosphere in which followers can learn and develop their qualities (Najmaei and Sadeghinejad, 2019). Finally, an easily accessible leader facilitates more interactions with followers, and encourages a learning-focused environment (Real et al., 2014).

Empirically, few studies have established a positive relationship between leadership and organizational learning. For instance, Tran and Choi (2019) found that inclusive leaders positively influenceacultureoforganizational learninginVietnamesefirms.Intheeducation setting, Hsiao and Chang (2011) found that transformational leadership positively impacts learning in Taiwanese post-secondary education. Hence, the following organizational hypothesis can be formulated:

H3.

Inclusive leadership is positively associated with organizational academic settings.
