# IJEM 36,4

398

practices(Bolton,1996;Gigliotti,2017;StefaniandBlessinger,2017;StratheandWilson,2006; Temple and Ylitalo, 2009). However, in light of these challenges, efforts to reform higher education management and leadership practices have mostly failed, while more innovative strategies have been devoted to prevail over the conventional management model (van Ameijde et al., 2009; Senge, 2010; Temple and Ylitalo, 2009). In general, transforming the conventional approaches to inclusive management needs fostering successful collaboration, andtheroleofmiddle-levelacademicleadersmustbehighlightedwithverynewdemandsput on their regular practices (Henkel, 2002; Temple and Ylitalo, 2009), in order to encourage positive work-related outcomes among academic staff. These demands require adapting to academic diversity and ensuring academic quality and effectiveness in which middle-level supervisors must behave as managers of their department and at the same time display effective leadership behaviors (Evans and Chun 2015). As the academic community are more diverse thanever, anotherchallenge for middle-level academic leaders istodevelop academic leadership identities, roles and competencies at various university levels to manage this diversity (Stefani and Blessinger, 2017; Temple and Ylitalo, 2009). Furthermore, this requires middle-level managers to balance inclusion demands and classical academic freedom in a situation in which the concept of modern inclusive leadership academic setting is still underdeveloped (Stefani and Blessinger, 2017). In general, previous researchers have suggested that practicing inclusive leadership in higher education to manage diversity faces the obstacle of the lack of effective leadership in the organizational culture and especially at the departmental level (Evans and Chun 2015). Therefore, new academic leadership practices shouldbefollowedinordertoincorporatethestrengthsofcollegialpracticesintoamorepost- modern concept of relational and inclusive leadership (Stefani and Blessinger, 2017). Although different types of leadership in higher education were studied such as servant leadership (Aboramadan et al., 2020a, b); transformational leadership (Owusu-Agyeman, 2019) and ethical leadership (Zeng and Xu, 2020), inclusive leadership in higher education seemstobethemosteffectivestyletomanagediversity(StefaniandBlessinger,2017;Temple and Ylitalo, 2009). Inclusive leadership can be viewed as a collaborative mechanism through which organizational members effectively take on leading roles and actions (McCauley and Van Velsor, 2004). In this leadership style, inclusive leaders eliminate obstacles, fortify relationships with others, support everyone to feel involved, and ensure that everyone get a fair opportunity to influence policies, decisions and procedures (Ryan, 2006). As leadership has implications for various stakeholders, an inclusive leader serves as the gateway to cross- cultural partnerships, procedures and policies. The inclusive leader calls upon various stakeholders to work together, in order to overcome conflicts and push policies forward (StefaniandBlessinger,2017).Previousresearchinhumanresourcesmanagementsuggested that leadership is a very important key to encourage organizational inclusiveness (Ashikali et al., 2020; Ashikali and Groeneveld, 2015; Brimhall, 2021), yet the legitimate question is whether the inclusive leader contributes to enhancing outcomes at the individual levels in academic settings.

On a different note, together with the concept of inclusive leadership, higher education institutions can respond to their challenges through promoting an environment which is characterized by organizational learning (Kezar and Holcombe, 2020; Salas-Vallina et al., 2017). Recent research endeavors suggest that higher education organizations need to be learning organizations, to facilitate change in the academic arena (Mulford, 2005; Strandli, 2006; White and Weathersby, 2005). Leaders, professors and administrators can employ learning theories to encourage change, to foster the effectiveness and organizational utilization of information within decision-making processes and to formulate and execute strategies to maximize institutional effectiveness (Dee and Lei(cid:1)syt_e, 2016).

Given the previous discussion, our study aims at proposing a model of the effects of inclusive leadership on academics’ extra-role behaviors, where organizational learning is

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:51)(cid:54)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:55)(cid:47)(cid:57)(cid:48)(cid:51)(cid:55)(cid:51)(cid:54)(cid:47)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:54)(cid:45)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:57)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)

hypothesized to serve as an effective intervening mechanism through data collected from academic staff working at the Palestinian higher education institutions. Our research contributestotheliteratureinfiveways.First,althoughtheavailableliteraturedemonstrates that inclusive leadership depicts a positive relationship with employees’ innovative behaviors, creativity, work engagement, well-being and voice behaviors (Carmeli et al., 2010; Choi et al., 2015, 2017; Guo et al., 2020; Javed et al., 2018, 2019; Qi and Liu, 2017), there is no evidence about the effect of inclusive leadership on innovative work behavior and organizational citizenship behavior simultaneously in the inclusion and leadership literature. Second,thisisoneoftheveryfewempiricalstudieswhichempiricallyexamine theconceptof inclusive leadership of academic leaders in higher education. It has been argued that the scope of inclusive leadership in higher education is not well studied (Stefani and Blessinger, 2017). Third, this paper contributes to the inclusion literature as inclusion research is still in infancy stage (Mitchell et al., 2015). More specifically limited empirical research has been conducted on the consequences of inclusive leadership (Choi et al., 2015; Najmaei and Sadeghinejad, 2019). Relational leadership styles, including inclusive leadership, are not well studiedintermsoftheireffectsonpositivework-relatedoutcomesamongemployees(Carmeli et al., 2010; Zhang et al., 2016). Shore et al. (2018) in their review of inclusive workplaces addressed the need to study employees’ perceptions of their inclusive leaders and the impact ofthis inclusivenessonwork-relatedoutcomes. Fourth, thestudycontributestotheliterature of organizational learning in general and academic setting in specific. Research on organizational learning in higher education organizations is scarce (Voolaid and Ehrlich, 2017), and the existing literature demonstrates that there is a dearth of research on how organizationallearningasacontextualfactormayincreaseextra-rolebehaviors,especiallyin knowledge-intensive settings (Salas-Vallina et al., 2017). Finally, this study shed lights on the roleinclusiveleadershipplaysinservicesectors,especiallyhighereducation,inanonwestern context (Palestine).

The palestinian higher education context The academic community at Palestinian higher education institutions is remarkably diverse. According to Palestinian Center Bureau of Statistics (2019), the academic community working at the Palestinian higher education is characterized by unique demographic characteristics such as age (young and old), gender (males and females), inter-regional movements, different religion (Muslims and Christians) and diverse philosophical backgrounds due to academic members’ educational degrees obtained from diverse cultural contexts (USA–UK, EU, others). Previous studies in the higher education setting in Palestine showed that the demographic profile is diverse in terms of age, gender and experience (Aboramadan, 2020; Dahleez et al., 2020). Furthermore, the agenda of ministry of higher education in Palestine is directed towards developing inclusion-oriented human resources in higher education through recruiting and training academic staff with skills, theoretical knowledge and competencies to ensure an inclusive climate at the workplace. On the other hand, higher education institutions in Palestine encounter financial challenges and operate in an environment that is characterized by political instability and ambiguity (Dahleez et al., 2020; Moughrabi, 2015).

SincePalestinianuniversitiesareconsidered politicalenvironments characterizedbyhigh diversity and limited resources, the ideals of inclusion cannot be implemented without the presence of leaders who are willing to change. Accordingly, the role of the academic leader in the Palestinian context is to invite diverse academic staff in order to address diversity differences and to collaborate together to move policies forward to continually expand the sector capacity in response to the challenges it encounters as suggested by Senge (2010). Although leadership in the Palestinian academic setting seems to be dominated by the

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:51)(cid:54)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:55)(cid:47)(cid:57)(cid:48)(cid:51)(cid:55)(cid:51)(cid:54)(cid:47)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:54)(cid:45)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:57)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)