# The current issue and full text archive of this journal is available on Emerald Insight at: https://www.emerald.com/insight/0951-354X.htm

Inclusive leadership and extra-role behaviors in higher education: does organizational learning mediate the relationship? Mohammed Aboramadan Department of Economics, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy Khalid Abed Dahleez Management, A’Sharqiyah University, Ibra, Oman and Management, Islamic University of Gaza, Gaza, Palestinian Authority, and Caterina Farao Department of Economics, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy

Abstract Purpose–Buildingonsocialexchangetheoryandrelationalleadershiptheory,thispaperproposesamodelof inclusive leadership in higher education institutions. Together with an attempt to examine the impact of inclusive leadership on extra-role behaviors of academic staff, the paper aims to test the intervening mechanism of organizational learning among the aforementioned relationships. Design/methodology/approach – Data were collected from 227 academic staff working in the Palestinian higher education institutions. Partial least squares (PLS-SEM) analysis technique was utilized to examine the hypotheses. Findings – The findings reveal that inclusive leadership exerts a positive effect on extra-role behaviors (organizational citizenship behaviors and innovative work behaviors) in the Palestinian higher education setting. Moreover, the findings show that organizational learning plays a significant mediatingrole among the relationships examined Practical implications – Academic communities are increasingly diverse. This diversity requires a work environment in which employees take on additional work roles. In response to this diversity, managers of highereducationinstitutionsshouldbeconcernedabouttherolesandpracticesofinclusiveleaders.Inaddition, higher education institutions need to be learning organizations since this would help to mitigate this diversity and create a working atmosphere characterized by continuous learning, collaboration and dialogue. Originality/value – In higher education, most of the literature on inclusive academic leadership is mainly theoretical.Furthermore,organizationallearninginhighereducationresearchisbasedonanecdotalperspectives (Dee and Lei(cid:1)syte, 2016). To this end, this paper is novel, as it is one of few studies to empirically investigate inclusive leadership and extra-role behaviors via organizational learning in a non-western academic context. Keywords Inclusive leadership, Organizational learning, OCB, Innovative work behavior Paper type Research paper

Introduction Academic leadership in higher education organizations encounters significant challenges which require rethinking and renewing traditional management, organizational policies and

© Mohammed Aboramadan, Khalid Abed Dahleez and Caterina Farao. Published by Emerald Publishing Limited. This article is published under the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY 4.0) licence. Anyone may reproduce, distribute, translate and create derivative works of this article (for both commercial and non-commercial purposes), subject to full attribution to the original publication and authors. The full terms of this licence may be seen at http://creativecommons.org/licences/by/4.0/ legalcode

This paper forms part of a special section “Inclusive higher education in cross-cultural settings”,