# IJEM 36,4

412

climate for creativity and inclusive climate can be addressed (Ashikali et al., 2020; Karatepe et al., 2020). Third, the study utilized a sample in Palestine, which might set limitations on the generalizability of the findings. Therefore, the authors recommend further studies, to replicate this study in higher education settings within different cultures, since the Palestinian higher education is particular due to several challenges the sector encounters. Finally, collecting qualitative data or utilizing mixed-research methods would provide in- depth analysis of how inclusive leadership encourages extra-role behaviors and enable a climate of organizational learning.

Conclusion The study proposed a model of effects of inclusive leadership on academic staff’ extra-role behaviors, namely, organizational citizenship behavior and innovative work behavior. Organizational learning was theorized to serve as a mediating variable among the aforementioned relationships. Using data collected from academic staff working in the Palestinian higher education institutions, the results indicated that inclusive leadership showed a positive relationship with extra-role behaviors of academic staff. Organizational learning showed to play effective and significant intervening role between the links examined.Thestudyadvisesfutureresearchtoreplicatethemodelinotheracademicsettings and examine other intervening mechanisms which may govern the relationship between inclusive leadership and its consequences.