# from the physical

However the disruption of the work culture presents researchers with a number of key opportunities. The most important set of questions is: How resilient are organizational cultures? What changed in these cultures? How do changes in the symbolic work affect organiza- tional culture? Will there be big changes in the culture of the organization as a whole? What are the actual impact of these changes on culture? (Spicer, 2020). An addi- tional group of inquiries could center on the ways in which alterations to organizational culture can have an effect on individuals, employees, and their behavior, as well as the ways in which it will influence deviations.

There are many interpretations of workplace deviance in academic literature. Most of them agree that work- organizations. horrendous place Workplace deviance is defined as voluntary employee behaviors that violate organizational norms and having the ability to hurt either the organization as a whole or individuals inside it. This topic has sparked increased research interest (Gruys & Sackett, 2003; Robinson & Bennett, 1995; Spector et al., 2006). Robinson and Bennett (1995) in their study on typology of deviant workplace behaviors divide workplace deviances into four categories: Production Deviance, Property Deviance, Political Deviance and Personal Aggression. Deviances in the form of personal aggression is not only a type of devi- ant workplace behavior but it is also a criminogenic fea- ture that is frequently linked to numerous violent crimes (Kamaluddin et al., 2016). Furthermore, physical well- being-threatening behaviors, such as fights and other phy- sically aggressive involving peers, are strongly associated with bullying involvement (Sabramani et al., 2021).