---
source_path: impacts_of_workplace_culture_on_deviant_workplace_behavior_a_systematic_review.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9ddcd49d2b9199c0185c99dfd25a47bc46bdc3a5
title: impacts_of_workplace_culture_on_deviant_workplace_behavior_a_systematic_review
---
# Bujang et al.

and situation’’ (Salancik & Pfeffer, 1978). This idea also indicates that employees look for cues in their work sur- roundings to characterize their working atmosphere and determine how to behave (Mayer et al., 2010). In other words, workplace culture provides signals and hints for employees regarding acceptable or unacceptable beha- viors and behavioural appropriateness in the organiza- tional setting. Workplace culture can also create peer pressure for new employees to conform to organizational norms, so as to be appreciated and accepted among employees and friends. Such tension may include per- forming deviant behavior, which violates the employee’s morality or beliefs (Zakaria et al., 2022).

Studies have suggested that two sets of variables corre- late to deviant behaviors in the workplace: variables at the individual level and other variables at the situational or organizational level (Alias et al., 2013; Appelbaum et al., 2007; di Stefano et al., 2019). Psychopathy, inade- quate self-control, and a challenging temperament are significant variables, according to research on the rela- tionship between individual personality traits and crimin- ality (Tharshini et al., 2021). Although research usually supports the major effects of various personality variables on organizational results, effect sizes for their function in predicting deviant workplace behavior are small in gen- eral, leaving a lot of variation unexplored (Kish-Gephart et al., 2010). Based on this understanding, this study posits that organizational-related variables could be use- ful in improving the explanatory power of workplace mis- behavior (di Stefano et al., 2019; Mount et al., 2006).

Researchers have also emphasized the significance of workplace culture in terms of affecting deviant workplace behavior (Dunn & Schweitzer, 2005; Goldman et al., 2006; Vardi & Weitz, 2003). This study adopts other scholars’ assertion that workplace culture influences devi- ant organizational behaviors are clear (Boye & Jones, 1997; Goldman et al., 2006; Kidwell & Martin, 2005; O’Boyle et al., 2011). A more recent study done by di Stefano et al. (2019) noted that workplace culture seemed to influence deviant workplace behavior in the direction of both employees and the organization, which is consis- tent with the work of Hill and Jones (2001) who observed that shared values, norms, beliefs, and goals impact the dynamics of relationships within employees, between organizations and employees, and even between organiza- tions and external stakeholders (di Stefano et al., 2019).

Furthermore, a study done by Mathieu (2021) found support for the relationship between an individual’s per- sonality and work misbehavior. Specifically, Mathieu (2021) stated that people with negative personality quali- ties are more prone to conduct fraud, perpetuate leader- ship behavior is abusive, engage in acts of harassment and bad manners, and exhibit inadequate quality of work. Our premise is that individuals with
