data/clean/impacts_of_workplace_culture_on_deviant_workplace_behavior_a_systematic_review__chunk2222.md, before:

# Yale University Press.

Sutherland, E. H. (1949). White collar crime. Dryden Press. Syed, N. A., & Azam, A. (2019). Islamic work ethics and work- place deviance: Moderating role of employees’ perceived abusive supervision and mediating role of employees’ hosti- lity. Pakistan Journal of Commerce and Social Sciences, 13(4), 952–975.

Tate, U., Whatley, A., & Clugston, M. (1997). Sources and out- comes of job tension: A three-nation study. International Journal of Management, 14, 350–358.

Teo, Y. H., Ke Xu, J. T., Ho, C., Leong, J. M., Jyn Tan, B. K., Hsuen Tan, E. K., Goh, W. A., Neo, E., Jing Chua, J. Y., Yi Ng, S. J., Yi Cheong, J. J., Hwang, J. Y. F., Lim, S. M., Soo, T., Khim Sng, J. G., & Yi, S. (2021). Factors associated with self-reported burnout level in allied healthcare profes- sionals in a tertiary hospital in Singapore. PloS One, 16(1), 1–17. https://doi.org/10.1371/JOURNAL.PONE.0244338 Tepper, B. (2000). Consequences of abusive supervision. Acad- emy of Management Journal, 43(2), 178–190. https://doi.org/ 10.2307/1556375

Tharshini, N. K., Ibrahim, F., Kamaluddin, M. R., Rathak- rishnan, B., & Che Mohd Nasir, N. (2021). The link between individual personality traits and criminality: A sys- International Journal of Environmental tematic review.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/impacts_of_workplace_culture_on_deviant_workplace_behavior_a_systematic_review__chunk2222.md, after:

---
source_path: impacts_of_workplace_culture_on_deviant_workplace_behavior_a_systematic_review.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 97fb8f7b9722628ea2c440666a4df521466f6e8e
title: impacts_of_workplace_culture_on_deviant_workplace_behavior_a_systematic_review
---
# crime. Cambridge University Press.

Sierra-Correa, P. C., & Cantera Kintz, J. R. (2015). Ecosystem- based adaptation for improving coastal planning for sea- level rise: A systematic review for mangrove coasts. Marine Policy, 51, 385–393. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.MARPOL. 2014.09.013

Sivarajah, U., Kamal, M. M., Irani, Z., & Weerakkody, V. (2017). Critical analysis of Big Data challenges and analyti- cal methods. Journal of Business Research, 70, 263–286. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.JBUSRES.2016.08.001

Spector, P. E., & Fox, S. (2010). Counterproductive work beha- vior and organisational citizenship behavior: Are they oppo- site forms of active behavior? Applied Psychology, 59(1), 21–39. https://doi.org/10.1111/J.1464-0597.2009.00414.X Spector, P. E., Fox, S., Penney, L. M., Bruursema, K., Goh, A., & Kessler, S. (2006). The dimensionality of counterproduc- tivity: Are all counterproductive behaviors created equal? Journal of Vocational Behavior, 68(3), 446–460. https://doi. org/10.1016/J.JVB.2005.10.005

Spicer, A. (2020). Organizational culture and COVID-19. Jour- nal of Management Studies, 57(8), 1737–1740. https://doi. org/10.1111/JOMS.12625

Stephens, J., Heaphy, E., Carmeli, A., Spreitzer, G., & Dutton, J. (2013). Relationship quality and virtuousness: Emotional carrying capacity as a source of individual and team resili- ence. The Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 49(1), 13–41. https://doi.org/10.1177/0021886312471193

Sutherland, E. (1983). White collar crime? The uncut version.
