---
source_path: impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7c69080b32073e65f707e4362d0039e56ebb5fcc
title: impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen
---
## Managerial Coaching on Employee Performance and OCB

employees respond to these favourable actions in the shape of improved job outcomes like thriving at work, extra role performance and in role performance as well (Kim & Kuo, 2015). This study determined that when managers build good relations, and support their subordinates, valuing the work of their employees, then these behaviors, build a learning and healthy environment, then reciprocally employee feel thrive at work. Employees who feel thrive in their workplace, they perform better as compared to those who didn’t get coaching and thriving environment.

- 6. Limitations and Future Directions

This current research has numerous prospects for further and advance research, but it has several taken from eastern culture pharmaceutical industry, this raises a question for the generalizability of the study. So, the further research can be conducted from western culture and other industry. Secondly, the research design of this study was cross-sectional so that future studies can use experimental and longitudinal research design (Babbie, 2012). Thirdly, the sample consists of the male dominated industry so that further investigation can be done in female oriented or equal basis industry. Fourthly, further research can be conducted to explore other possible mediators and moderators for better understanding the relationships of managerial coaching and employee performance outcomes. Fifthly, hypothesis 2 and three were not supported, means managerial coaching not directly impact on extra-role performance (OCB-I, OCB-O), so future studies can be done to explore these relationships and by using other measure of these variables. Finally, this research is the basis for future studies for better understanding the role of thriving at work and managerial coaching. Sixth, future studies can be conducted for international comparison of coaching behavior effectiveness in different culture, because in specific cultural setting specific coaching behavior is suitable. Seventh, future research can be conducted to integrate managerial coaching with leadership style and skills, because it is unclear to date which leadership style and skills are effective for coaching. Eight, future studies can be conducted to explore other job- related outcome like organizational commitment, job satisfaction, deviant workplace behavior, job involvement, perceive organizational support, turnover intention and employee engagement through mediating effect of thriving at work. Nine, the future studies can be explored relationship between managerial coaching and performance outcomes via mediating role of job ambivalence and explore the role of tenure for the effectiveness of coaching relationship between supervisor and subordinate. Lastly, job stress and perception of organizational politics as a moderator can be explore between the relationship of managerial coaching and job performance outcome.

limitations. Firstly,
