data/clean/impact_of_inclusive_leadership_on_employee_innovative_behavior_perceived_organiz__chunk0009.md, before:

## Impact of inclusiveleadershipon employeeinnovativebehavior

Competinginterests: The authorshave declared that no competing interests exist.

innovative behavior. Despite those studies has not yet examined the effect of inclusive leader- ship on innovative behavior. Inclusive leadership was quite different from other kinds of leadership [17]. Inclusive leadership closely matched the determinants of innovation at the workplace, some of which were inclusiveness, openness, uniqueness, and support for innova- tion [17,18]. Studying the impact of inclusive leadership on innovative behavior could provide further insights into extant literature regarding the effect of leadership on innovative behavior. Unfortunately, published empirical studies on the link between inclusive leadership and inno- vation performance are rare.

The current study developed novel theoretic insights on how employee innovative behavior was affected by inclusive leadership. Innovation involved change [19], which by its nature (i.e. diversity) required inclusiveness, openness, and support. Business organizations capable of fostering an innovation-supportive work environment may realize a sustainable competitive advantage in innovation [20]. To examine the relationship between inclusive leadership and employee innovative behavior, we proposed employees’ perceived organizational support (POS) of employee, as a mediator for this relationship. POS, which was valued as assurance that would be available from the organization when needed to carry out their job effectively and deal with stressful situations [21,22]. Researchers have highlighted the importance of inclusive leadership [17] and organizational support [23] in stimulating employee innovative behavior. However, few studies focused on the relationship between inclusive leadership and employee innovative behavior through employee’s POS [24].

In the current study, we contributed to extant research [17,23] by investigating the influ- ence of inclusive leadership on employee innovative behavior through POS. Our study aimed to make two major contributions to understanding the role of leadership behavior in develop- ing organizations’ competitive advantage [25,26]. First, our study contributed to research on organizational leadership by emphasizing the role of inclusive leadership, as “research into inclusion is still in its infancy” [27]. Second, our study extended previous studies on the ante- cedents of employee innovative behavior by examining how organizational contextual factors such as inclusive leadership (Time 1) and POS (Time 2) influenced employee innovative behavior (Time 2). This research echoed the call for “future studies that may adopt a longitudi- nal approach to study the effect of change in supervisors’ leadership style on employee creativ- ity” [11]. Also, this study responded to call for rich and nuanced conceptual research in the innovation field, especially concerning the role of employees’ cognition in motivating their innovative behavior.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/impact_of_inclusive_leadership_on_employee_innovative_behavior_perceived_organiz__chunk0009.md, after:

---
source_path: impact_of_inclusive_leadership_on_employee_innovative_behavior_perceived_organiz.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2f418d179242849fb5f52fccb222a3bbf0c9d308
title: impact_of_inclusive_leadership_on_employee_innovative_behavior_perceived_organiz
---
# Introduction

Copyright:© 2019 Qi et al. This is an open access article distributedunder the terms of the Creative CommonsAttribution License,which permits unrestricteduse, distribution, and reproductionin any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.

Data Availability Statement:All relevant data are within the paper and its Supporting Information files.

In a competitive environment characterized by globalization, shortened product life cycles, and rapid technological change [1], innovation has been regarded as the crucial facilitator for growth, performance, and competitiveness [2]. Managers and scholars have increasingly emphasized the important influence of innovation on competitive advantage, sustainable development, and long-term organizational success [3]. A key issue of innovation was that an individual had an innovative, novel and creative idea and developed that idea beyond its initial state [4]. Given that employee innovation in organizations was of critical importance to an organization, it was vital to identify factors that could stimulate employee innovative behavior [5], which referred to employee’s engaging innovative activities [6,7].

Funding:This research was financially supported by the National Social Science Foundation (14BGL073), Ministry of EducationHumanities and Social Sciences Research Planning Fund Project (19YJA0056), ShandongSocial Science Planning Fund Program(17CLYJ26), Major Programof Humanities and Social Sciences of Shandong University (17RWZD21), Bing Liu as the funding recipients.

Investigators have sought to identify determinants of employee innovative behavior [6,8]. Many determinants have been explored, such as knowledge sharing [9], human resource (HR) management practices [10], innovation climate [11], absorptive capacity [12], and perceived innovation job requirements [7]. Among all these determinants of innovative behavior, leader- ship has been arguably noted as the most important factor that influenced creativity and inno- vation in organizations [13]. Several studies indicate that transformational leadership [1,14], ethical leadership [15], and paternalistic leadership [16] significantly influenced employee

PLOS ONE | https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0212091 February 28, 2019

1 / 14
