## Managerial Coaching on Employee Performance and OCB

Ratiu, L., David, O. A., & Baban, A. (2017). Developing managerial skills through coaching: efficacy of a cognitive-behavioral coaching program. Journal of Rational- Emotive & Cognitive-Behavior Therapy, 35(1), 88-110.

Rodell, J. B., & Judge, T. A. (2009). Can “good” stressors spark “bad” behaviors? The mediating role of emotions in links of challenge and hindrance stressors with citizenship and counterproductive behaviors. Journal of Applied Psychology, 94(6), 1438–1451. Rosen, C. C., Chang, C. H., Johnson, R. E., & Levy, P. E. (2009a). Perceptions of the organizational context and psychological contract breach: Assessing competing perspectives. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 108(2), 202–217. Rosen, C. C., Harris, K. J., & Kacmar, K. M. (2009b). The emotional implications of perceived organizational politics: A process model. Human Relations, 62(1), 27–57. Rusbult, C., Campbell, M., & Price, M. (1990). Rational selective exploitation and distress: Employee reactions to performance based and mobility-based reward allocations. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 59(3), 487–500. Ryan, R. M., & Deci, E. L. (2000). Self-determination theory and the facilitation of intrinsic motivation, social development, and well-being. American Psychologist, 55(1), 68–78. Sim, W., Zanardelli, G., Loughran, M. J., Mannarino, M. B., & Hill, C. E. (2016). Thriving, burnout, and coping strategies of early and later career counseling center psychologists in the United States. Counselling Psychology Quarterly, 29(4), 382-404.

Sobel, M. E. (1982). Asymptotic confidence intervals for indirect effects in structural equation models. Sociological Methodology, 13, 290-312.

Sobel, M. E. (1986). Some new results on indirect effects and their standard errors in covariance structure models. Sociological Methodology, 16, 159-186.

Sonenshein, S., Dutton, J. E., Grant, A. M., Spreitzer, G. M., & Sutcliffe, K. M. (2013). Growing at work: Employees' in organizations. Organization Science, 24(2), 552-570.