# value

The findings stated that narcissism, which contributes to a toxic work environment and abusive supervision have a significant effect and partial mediation effect on organizational deviance (Tiwari & Jha, 2022). For orga- nizations that encourage the culture of volunteerism, high perception of organizational justice reduces the indirect link between employee volunteering and work- place deviances (Loi et al., 2020). On the contrary, low perception of organizational justice shows that employ- ees who believe there’s a power asymmetry inside the organization, may lead to an employee’s engagement in deviant workplace behavior as a means of resisting orga- nizational authority and the perceived powerlessness— this is also echoed in a study by Kelloway et al. (2010) and Lawrence and Robinson (2016). Nasir & Bashir (2012) concluded that one of the most significant contri- butors responsible for creating workplace deviance are organizational injustice and job dissatisfaction.

In this review, some evidence was found linking the negative influence of organizational and supervisory sup- port to employees’ deviant workplace behavior. Results show how employee perceptions of supervisor support, organizational support, and cultural dimension config- urations all have a role in fostering employee deviant workplace behavior (Kalemci et al., 2019). The effect of this on organizational support, expressed as a tightness- looseness ratio culture; demonstrates that perceived cul- tural tightness at the unit level is significantly and nega- tively associated to stress and intention to exit at the person level, as well as organizational deviance (di Santo et al., 2021).

The impact of organizational support culture was also revealed in Helfers et al. (2018) study on self-protective behaviors among police officers. Fairness and self- protective behavior are related, but primarily inasmuch as it improves social exchange by raising perceptions of organizational support and lowering perceptions of

organizational indifference, both of which have a direct impact on an officer’s use of self-protective behavior. Other surveys that involved police officers as respon- dents also show that organizational factors influence supervisors’ propensity to report subordinate wrong- doing (Lim & Sloan, 2016). Rahmah et al. (2021) con- cluded that the work ethics implementation in the police force is strongly influenced by the culture that develops in the organization so that organizational submission toward work ethics that are applied, will depend on whether the organizational culture is conducive or sup- portive of individuals who implement it.

On the matter of organizational politics and work- place deviance, this review found that while construal level (a stable, personal factor) reduced the association between low self-control and induced incivility, organiza- tional politics (a stable, environmental factor) enhanced the relationship between experienced incivility and low self-control (Rosen et al., 2016), which is a type of deviance in the form of personal aggression. This is in accordance with Bashir et al.’s (2019) study stating that when employees encounter organizational politics, they tend to exhibit interpersonal deviance but not organiza- tional deviance which is two different type of deviances. Deviances in the form of personal aggression also appeared in the results in the form of perceived aggres- sive culture, abuse and employees’ hostility (Mawritz et al., 2014; Restubog et al., 2012; Syed & Azam, 2019; Valle et al., 2019).

Employees with abusive employers indulged in moral disengagement methods, which led to organizational deviance behaviors (Valle et al., 2019). Employees who worked for supervisors with lower ethical standards were more likely to experience the indirect consequences of a hostile climate through abusive supervision. Furthermore, employees who worked for supervisors with abusive supervision were more likely to engage in organization- directed deviance as a means of coping with the pressure of hostile surroundings (Mawritz et al., 2014). Table 3 provides an overview of these mentioned studies.