data/clean/impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen__chunk0154.md, before:

# Raza et al.

Ferris, G. R., & Kacmar, K. M. (1992). Perceptions of organizational politics. Journal of Management, 18(1), 93-116.

Frisch, M. H. (2001). The emerging role of the internal coach. Consulting Psychology Journal: Practice and Research, 53(4), 240-250.

Gilley, A., Gilley, J. W., & Kouider, E. (2010). Characteristics of managerial coaching. Performance Improvement Quarterly, 23(1), 53-70.

Grant, A. M. (2006). Workplace and executive coaching: A bibliography from the scholarly business literature. In R. Stober & A. M. Grant (Eds.), Evidence based coaching handbook: Putting best practices to work for your clients (pp. 367-398). Hoboken, NJ: Wiley.

Hagen, M. S. (2010). Black belt coaching and project outcomes: An empirical investigation. Quality Management Journal, 17(2), 54-67.

Hahn, H. J. (2016). The effects of managerial coaching on work performance: The mediating roles of role clarity and psychological empowerment (Unpublished Doctoral dissertation). University of Minnesota.

Hair, J., Anderson, R. E, Tatham, R. L, Black, W. C. (1995). Multivariate data analysis (4th ed.). New Jersey, USA: Prentice-Hall Inc.

Hall, A. T., Hochwarter, W. A., Ferris, G. R., & Bowen, M. G. (2004). The dark side of politics in organizations. In R. W. Griffin & A. M. O’Leary-Kelly (Eds.), The dark side of organizational behavior (pp. 237–261). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. Hyman, J., & Cunningham, I. (1998). Managers as developers: Some reflections on the contribution of empowerment in Britain. International Journal of Training and Development, 2(2), 91-107.

Jones, R. J., Woods, S. A., & Guillaume, Y. R. (2016). The effectiveness of workplace analysis of learning and performance outcomes from coaching. Journal coaching: A meta of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 89(2), 249-277.

‐

Joo, B. K. B., Sushko, J. S., & McLean, G. N. (2012). Multiple faces of coaching: Manager- as-coach, executive coaching, and formal mentoring. Organization Development Journal, 30(1), 19.

Kacmar, K. M., & Carlson, D. S. (1997). Further validation of the perceptions of politics scale (POPS): A multiple sample investigation. Journal of Management, 23(5), 627-658.

Kahn, W. A. (1990). Psychological conditions of personal engagement and disengagement at work. Academy of Management Journal, 33(4), 692-724.

Kalkavan, S., & Katrinli, A. (2014). The effects of managerial coaching behaviors on the employees’ perception of job performance: Case study on insurance industry in Turkey. Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences, 150, 1137-1147.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen__chunk0154.md, after:

---
source_path: impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: daf5c3ae47c0e659e1a73a42ca9ec43ebd5d7a98
title: impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen
---
## Managerial Coaching on Employee Performance and OCB

Chmura Kraemer, H., Kiernan, M., Essex, M., & Kupfer, D. J. (2008). How and why criteria defining moderators and mediators differ between the Baron & Kenny and MacArthur approaches. Health Psychology, 27(2), 101-114.

Cohen, E., & Tichy, N. (1998). Teaching: The heart of leadership. The Healthcare Forum Journal, 41(2), 20-30.

Cohen, J., & Cohen, P. (1983). Applied multiple regression/correlation analysis for the behavioral sciences. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.

Colquitt, J. A., Scott, B. A., & LePine, J. A. (2007). Trust, trustworthiness, and trust propensity: A meta-analytic test of their unique relationships with risk taking and job performance. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92(4), 909-927.

Cox, E., Bachkirova, T., & Clutterbuck, D. (2010). The complete handbook of coaching. London, England: Sage.

Dahling, J. J., Taylor, S. R., Chau, S. L., & Dwight, S. A. (2016). Does coaching matter? a multilevel model linking managerial coaching skill and frequency to sales goal attainment. Personnel Psychology, 69(4), 863-894.

Deci, E. L., & Ryan, R. M. (1985). Intrinsic motivation and self-determination in human behavior. New York, NY: Plenum Press.

Deeter-Schmelz, D. R., Goebel, D. J., & Kennedy, K. N. (2008). What are the characteristics of an effective sales manager? An exploratory study comparing salesperson and sales manager perspectives. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management, 28(1), 7-20.

Delery, J. E., & Roumpi, D. (2017). Strategic human resource management, human capital, and competitive advantage: Is the field going in circles? Human Resource Management Journal, 27(1), 1-21.

Eisenberger, R., Fasolo, P., & Davis-LaMastro, V. (1990). Perceived organizational support and employee diligence, commitment, and innovation. Journal of Applied Psychology, 75(1), 51-59.

Ellinger, A. D., & Cseh, M. (2007). Contextual factors influencing the facilitation of others' learning through everyday work experiences. Journal of Workplace Learning, 19(7), 435- 452.

Ellinger, A. D., Ellinger, A. E., & Keller, S. B. (2003). Supervisory coaching behavior, employee satisfaction, and warehouse employee performance: A dyadic perspective in the distribution industry. Human Resource Development Quarterly, 14(4), 435-458.

Ellinger, A. D., Ellinger, A. E., Bachrach, D. G., Wang, Y. L., & Elmadağ Baş, A. B. (2011). Organizational investments in social capital, managerial coaching, and employee work-related performance. Management Learning, 42(1), 67-85.

Ellinger, A. D., Ellinger, A. E., Hamlin, R. G. and Beattie, R. S. (2009). Achieving Improved Performance through Managerial Coaching, in Handbook of Improving Performance in the Workplace: Volumes 1-3 (eds K. H. Silber, W. R. Foshay, R. Watkins, D. Leigh, J. L. Moseley and J. C. Dessinger), John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, NJ, USA.

Elliott, E. S., & Dweck, C. S. (1988). Goals: An approach to motivation and achievement. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 54(1), 5-20.

808
