# Figure 1: Framework

- 3. Methods

This section presents the procedure of data collection and study sample. Furthermore, measurements of variables for data collection are described below. Lastly, the data analysis strategy is discussed. 3.1 Data Collection Procedure and Study Sample The population of this research study has been constituted by the employees of Albro Pharmaceuticals (Pvt.) Limited, Shaf Pharma Lahore and Alpha Chemicals (Pvt.) Limited, Lahore in Pakistan. The nature of this study is quantitative and cross sectional. This model applies to all sectors, but the population has been taken from this industry because it is best suitable for the pharmaceutical sector in Pakistan. The pharmaceutical industry is more actively exercising or adopting such motivational managerial skills to boost up their sales and market share through their workforce practically. The environment of this industry is more conclusive to respond to this model or these research questions. The support of human resource managers has been available for data collection and other relevant information. The questionnaires were sent through email to 350 respondents with their informed consent to participate in this study. The survey questionnaires have two forms (form A is meant for having responses of employees for managerial coaching and thriving at work and form B is meant for having responses of managers for performance and OCB-I, OCB-O of employees). Three constructs related to employees’ feedback and two constructs for the feedback of manager. Firstly, to rate managerial coaching and thriving at work by

796