# SAGE Open

hurt organizations and their stakeholders. In government organizations, the stakeholder is the general populace.

Plenty of research have been conducted to determine the factors that influence deviant behavior at work (Abbasi et al., 2022; Aryati et al., 2018; O¨ zt€urk & Y€uksel Poyraz, 2021; Peterson, 2002; Wang et al., 2022). To alle- viate deviant behavior in organizations, it is vital to have a comprehensive awareness of the factors that influence an employee’s propensity of engaging in deviant beha- viour (O¨ zt€urk & Y€uksel Poyraz, 2021). When employees experience various sorts of deviance at work, they either reciprocate to co-workers or stray from it, and both action incur costs to the organization (Abbasi et al., 2022). These costs, together with cost associated with excessive breaks, squandered resources, sabotage, and other workplace deviance-related actions, show that workplace deviance is a substantial and critical problem that has to be forcefully handled (Spector & Fox, 2010). The shortcomings, following an examination of previ- ous evaluations discussing the impact of workplace cul- ture on deviant workplace behavior, is glaring. There are few reviews addressing this relationship, and even fewer empirical research highlighting the importance of situa- tional circumstances such as organizational climate per- ceptions, ethical injustice perceptions and perceived organizational support. It appears that most empirical research has neglected this macro-level, contex- tual predictor in favor of more controllable antecedents such as organizational ethical climate or organizational justice (di Stefano et al., 2019). Therefore, to further understand the factors of workplace deviances, the effect of workplace culture on deviant behavior in the work- place merits a systematic and thorough investigation. The objective of the present systematic literature review is to provide a short and systematic evaluation of the research concerning the effects of workplace culture on deviant workplace behavior. It accomplishes this by maintaining explicit inclusion and exclusion criteria, as well as clarity regarding how the quality of the sampled studies was evaluated. In this sense, the results offer a useful synthesis of prior knowledge to guide future beha- vioural science research directions especially in a work- place environment. The inconsistent results of other studies will be clarified by this study, which examines several factors of workplace culture on deviant work- place behavior in an organization.

climate,