---
source_path: impacts_of_workplace_culture_on_deviant_workplace_behavior_a_systematic_review.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 90fcd340a6a2ff32dd9efa222c1511b19c8db9dc
title: impacts_of_workplace_culture_on_deviant_workplace_behavior_a_systematic_review
---
# SAGE Open

transgressions for the sake of the company (Apel & Paternoster, 2009). Employees must learn and adopt such culture just as any other organizational practices are learned. Workplace culture can be morally accepta- ble practices or morally controversial ones that benefits an organization. Some sectors have a system of values or cultural prohibitions that are ‘‘friendly to lawbreaking,’’ and criminal behavior flourishes within these industries and businesses regardless of the characteristics of those who work for them (E. Sutherland, 1983). Thus, E. Sutherland (1983) suggests that a deviant act can be committed regardless of one’s attributes and caused by the culture surrounding oneself.

E. H. Sutherland (1949) also stated that two empirical characteristics had to be accounted for regarding white- collar crimes: (1) workplace conduciveness to criminality; Certain industries appeared to be more conducive to crime over others and (2) engagement in law violations; Some corporations or organizations were more engaged in unlawful activities than others within specific indus- tries. Deviant acts are produced because there is a culture within organization or within sections inside an organiza- tion that offer normative support for such illegal beha- vior as well as a framework of incentives to encourage compliance with such standards and as penalty for non- compliance. As such, it is suffice to say that deviant act may be due to organizational features such as workplace culture and organizational climate. Normative cultural characteristics of organizations is widely cited as a lead- ing factor in encouraging deviant act along with corpo- rate and white-collar criminal activity (Hawkins, 2002; Shover & Hochstetler, 2006).

The impact of workplace culture on deviant work- place behavior might also be framed via the lens of Social Exchange Theory (Blau, 1964). Social Exchange Theory states that workers and their employers have an interdependent relationship in which one party’s beha- vior effects the other. According to this idea, values, standards, and all other aspects of workplace culture are learned through earlier exchange experiences shared by individuals in the organization (di Stefano et al., 2019). Since exchange of norms normalizes guidelines for con- duct around employers and employees, deviant work- place behavior can be construed to have been facilitated by social exchanges between employee and their organi- zation (Liao et al., 2004).

The connection among both workplace culture and deviant behavior in the workplace can also be further explained by Social Information Processing theory. According to this notion, individual attitudes are created through the processing of information about socially rel- evant behaviors. As a process, individuals ‘‘adapt atti- tudes, behaviour, and beliefs to their social context and to the reality of their own past and present behaviour
