---
source_path: impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ff437f207ffbf7286e8b46ab677fee98b7bb5cc6
title: impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen
---
## Managerial Coaching on Employee Performance and OCB

work” is fresh and new in attaining attention in auspicious workplace conduct. Thriving at work theorize into two dimensions learning and vitality (Spreitzer et al., 2005). Recently, scholars conceptually and operationally defined under three broader dimensions i.e., affective, behavioral, and cognitive elements (Abid & Ahmed, 2016). The learning component includes acquisition and application of new information and skills (Elliott & Dweck, 1988) and vitality meanings narrated by Nix et al (1999) positive feelings about energy and enthusiasm. Porath et al (2012) have probed both vitality and learning individually. But latest developments are more directed at employee thriving at work; also depicting the effectiveness and expediency of considering learning and vitality together, for the reason that both of these emotional situations at work are linked to optimistic outcomes (Spreitzer et al., 2012). Thriving is considered a self-regulatory mental state and can be inclined by innovation (Wallace et al., 2016).

Thriving is a key determinant of innovative work behavior, performance, absenteeism, commitment, well-being, positive health, voice behavior, turnover intention, and engagement. Moreover, empirical studies support these key determinants of thriving at work is key, absenteeism and job performance (Porath et al., 2012), turnover intention, job satisfaction, and innovative work behavior (Abid et al., 2015; Abid et al., 2016). Employees do innovative actions when they thrive in their workplace as a result of quick feedback, clear paths of goals, get learning opportunities in their work environment and these can be obtained by managers when they act as a coach. In these days, at the point of sales, providing services manually employees may not satisfy the numerous requests and the unpredictability of customers with service manuals only. Therefore, to fulfill these requirements, employees necessarily work creatively and perform extra performance. So currently, it needs to explore the OCB and creative actions of workers as the result of managerial coaching actions (Oh & Tak, 2016). Thus, this study will provide empirically support to fill this gap.

The significance and usefulness have been increasing of managerial coaching (Beattie et al., 2014), but a thorough probe of managerial coaching effectiveness is rare in the literature (Boyatzis et al., 2012). There are few outcome variables have been examined in the literature (Hagen, 2012; Kim et al., 2013), one of these is employee job performance. There are few intervening variables has been investigated in previous literature like (role clarity; Kim et al., 2014 and trust; Kim and Kuo, 2015) between the relationship of managerial coaching and job performance. There is no empirical evidence regarding thriving at work as an intervening variable between the relationships of managerial coaching and employee job performance. In Eastern countries rarely examined the in-role and extra-role performance broadly through thriving at work with the help of managerial coaching (Beattie et al., 2014).

Grounded on the previous literature and social exchange theory, present research will fill the said research gaps, where the purpose of our exploratory study is to look at the relationship between study variables and answer the following questions: (cid:32) What is the impact of managerial coaching on job performance including in-role
