data/clean/impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen__chunk0010.md, before:

# Raza et al.

- 1. Introduction

The corporate atmosphere has been varying swiftly because new competitors are entering with sustainable competitive advantages, new technology and improved methods of production. To compete with this kind of competition and sustainable development, organizations need to put extra-ordinary effort by using modern tools (Hagen, 2010; Pousa & Mathieu, 2015; Delery & Roumpi, 2017). It is important to improve employee performance through managerial coaching effectiveness (Pousa & Mathieu, 2010; Pusan et al., 2017). If organizations are managed by poorly management techniques, then the existence and development of the organization will be a question mark. So, to gain sustainable competitive advantages and to increase sales volume, coaching is considered a particular managerial technique (Deeter-Schmelz, et al., 2008; Dahling et al., 2016; Pousa et al., 2017).

Experts, organizational psychologists, and HRD researchers have commenced probing the significance and effectiveness of managerial coaching (Kim et al., 2013). Kim et al (2015) found a negative relationship of managerial coaching and turnover intention rate. In-role performance can be enhanced through managerial coaching by providing resources, goals and clear pathways and also, found the indirect relationship of managerial coaching and employee performance (Kim et al., 2014). Managerial coaching can be understood as a favor of manager for employees achievement and development, so reciprocally employees put extra efforts towards extra performance enhancements (Boyatzis et al., 2012). Moreover, employees understand organization to support, as they contemplate manager as a true demonstration of the organization (Kim, 2010), then they tend to reciprocate organizational citizenship behavior directed at the organization (Kottke & Sharafinski, 1988). Kim and Kuo (2015) found a positive relationship of managerial coaching and OCB. Supervisor or manager provide coaching to their subordinate.

The purpose of this management action is to boost employee learning, effectiveness, and participation (Ellinger et al., 2010; Park, 2007; Peterson & Hicks, 1996; Ratiu et al., 2017). Different experts in management considered an effective method for sustainable competitive advantage for managerial coaching (Hagen, 2010). Job performance is the most important outcome of managerial coaching (Ellinger et al., 2003; Kalkavan & Katrinli, 2004; Evered & Selman, 1989; Peterson & Hicks, 1996). Moreover, organizations are now shifting gears and tasks of HRD professionals to supervisors and executives, including employee coaching (Liu & Batt, 2010; Jones et al., 2016). These managers were previously into the roles of administration, control, and supervision and now more being encouraged to develop human capital so that strategic goals can be attained in the long run (Ellinger et al., 2003; Evered & Selman, 1989; Muhlberger, & Traut, 2015) through managerial coaching (Kim et al., 2013; Ellinger et al., 2011; Turner, & McCarthy, 2015) instructors (Hyman & Cunningham, 1998), trainers (Frisch, 2001) mentors (Cohen & Tichy, 1998; Senge, 1990) and counselors (Booth, 1996). Furthermore, to enhance the effectiveness of the organization in terms of in-role and extra-role performance, a manager should be accepting the ideas of employees, act as a role model, develop good relationships with subordinates (Colquitt et al., 2007), whereby employees would then accomplish their responsibilities with energy (Ellinger et al., 2010).

Together, with the managerial coaching, individual outcomes such as employee performance could be enhanced through thriving at work. To do so, this study deliberates the role of thriving with relating to employee job performance. The idea of “thriving at 791

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen__chunk0010.md, after:

---
source_path: impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f1daaca5484aa6a06a9e05477a30dea7eecb58d1
title: impact_of_managerial_coaching_on_employee_performance_and_organizational_citizen
---
# Abstract

A thorough probe into managerial coaching effectiveness is rare in the literature. To fill this research gap, this study examines the relationship of managerial coaching and employees’ performance more profoundly. This research probes the direct relationship of managerial coaching with task performance and contextual performance, and indirect relationship through intervening role of thriving at work. The self-designed questionnaires were used to collect data from 280 employees of pharmaceutical sector of Pakistan. The hierarchical regression analysis reveals that managerial coaching directly influences job performance, and indirectly influences job performance, organizational citizenship behavior toward individual and organization (OCBI-OCBO) as well via mediating role of thriving at work. The Sobel tests also confirms and shows the significance of mediating role of thriving at work in the conceptual model. This research provides empirical evidence regarding usefulness of managerial coaching grounded on social exchange theory in the context of Pakistan. The contribution of study, future directions and limitations are also discussed.

Keywords: managerial coaching, employee performance, organizational citizenship behavior-individual, organizational citizenship behavior-organization, thriving at work, pharmaceutical sales representatives, pharmaceutical sector.
