data/clean/impact_of_inclusive_leadership_on_employee_innovative_behavior_perceived_organiz__chunk0021.md, before:

# Ethics approval

An ethics approval was not required as per institutional guidelines and national laws regula- tions because there’s no unethical behaviors existing in the research procedures. We just con- ducted questionnaire survey and were exempt from further ethics board approval since our research did not involve human clinical trials or animal experiments. Also, the content of the questionnaire did not involve any sensitive or personal privacy or ethical and moral topics. In the first page of the questionnaire, information on consent procedures was included and par- ticipants were notified that consent was to be obtained by virtue of survey completion. Mean- while, we informed that participants about the objectives of the study and guaranteed their confidentiality and anonymity. The way to fill in the questionnaire is to take out the secret sys- tem, which can further ensure rights of people who answer the questionnaire. All the partici- pants were completely free to join or drop out the survey. Only those who were willing to participate were recruited.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/impact_of_inclusive_leadership_on_employee_innovative_behavior_perceived_organiz__chunk0021.md, after:

---
source_path: impact_of_inclusive_leadership_on_employee_innovative_behavior_perceived_organiz.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 24d8f1f3f0768ba5ff3e96b47071e1800926f003
title: impact_of_inclusive_leadership_on_employee_innovative_behavior_perceived_organiz
---
## Impact of inclusiveleadershipon employeeinnovativebehavior

subordinates and their matching supervisors were randomly selected, and all employees had the freedom to decide whether to participate in this study. Every participant received a red pocket with a random amount of money (5–20 RMB) for each questionnaire completed. To ensure participants’ confidentiality and decrease their fear of exposure and risk of liability, sur- veys were placed into a sealed envelope and respondents were instructed to return the com- pleted questionnaires directly to the researchers. Anonymity was assured. The survey questionnaires were coded before being distributed.

Time 1 (T1), we administered questionnaires to 401 employees in 127 teams, who were asked to provide their demographic information (e.g., age, gender, education, and tenure) and perceived inclusive leadership. We received usable responses from 364 employees in 116 teams, for a response rate of 90.77%. Three months later, we conducted the second survey (T2), 330 employees who participate in the T1 survey and 112 supervisors were available. Employees were asked to report their perceived organizational support and supervisors were asked to rate their subordinates’ innovative behavior. 329 questionnaires reported by employees and 105 questionnaires rated by supervisors were collected. As a result, we obtained completed questionnaire from 226 employees (a response rate of 56.36%) and 75 matched supervisors (a response rate of 66.96%) after excluding missing data. Of the sample, 61.10% of the respondents were female; most (81%) were below 35 years old; 54% employees got bachelor degree, 41.20% employees got college degree or below, 4.80% employees got master degree or above; the tenure of employees ranged from 1 year to 10 years (40.7% of employees worked 1–3 years, 18.6% of employees worked 4–6 years, 18.1% of employees worked 7–10 years).
