# Raza et al.

managerial coaching as a worldwide instrument where the previous researches observed the major and interactional special effects of two traditional societal variables (Collectivism and GE) and gender on managerial coaching. The previous research portrayed that woman managers spectacle more coaching behavior than their male colleagues (Ye et al., 2016) suggesting that coaching is not a gender-neutral spectacle. It is an operative and effective way for the women managers to exhibit the directing and managing behavior and to advance their talents and capabilities.

Another research, where the managerial coaching was positively related with two dimensions of work performance of employees: in role behavior and innovative behavior (Hahn, 2016). This depicted that employees who perceive that they had received coaching from their managers appear to perform better at assigned tasks. Managerial coaching improves job performance of employees (Zemke, 1996). In turn, improved job performance exhibits innovative behavior, including generating and implementing novel ideas at work with managerial coaching (Hahn, 2016).

Furthermore, results revealed that the managerial coaching did not have a significant relationship with OCB-individual and OCB-organization. This could have been because of lack of managerial coaching including listening, clear goals, communication analysis, interviewing, observation and quick feedback (Joo et al., 2012). Effective and quickly feedback, build a good relationship with the subordinates (Steelman & Wolfeld, 2016). Furthermore, managerial coaching shall result in psychological ownership and learning goal orientation, both of which are associated positively with organizational citizenship behavior and creative behaviors, respectively (Oh &Tak, 2016), ultimately increasing OCB-organization. OCB-organization can be further increased through managerial coaching where procedural justice environment is also quite low. This is because when practical justice climate is low, the impact of operative coaching turns authoritative for OCBs of employees (Ozduran & Tanova, 2017).

Furthermore, in this study results revealed that managerial coaching is positively associated with OCB- individual and OCB-Organization with the mediating effects of thriving at work. These results are consistent with the previous researches where thriving at work is made up of two components including learning and vitality (Prem et al., 2016). Thriving at work is further instigated through the challenge stressors, where complex levels of time stress, employees feel that they get better and improve at work than with minor levels of task stressors and higher hindrance stressors. Furthermore, cognitive evaluations play a part in triggering thriving at work, where learning and strength are all exaggerated by one particular type of cognitive evaluation. Thriving at work could be increased with the moderating impact of autonomy orientation, which could further enhance change oriented OCB (Li et al., 2016). Literature suggests that OCB could be further enhanced with five categories of thriving including, recognition for achievement, the climate of the counseling center and campus, lower levels of burnout factors, lower levels of personal difficulties and challenges and personal therapy (Sim et al., 2016). Further than that, individual innovation increases through employee involvement climate via thriving (Wallace et al., 2013).

Supportive behaviors of supervisors develop a supportive environment for subordinates which result in their favorable behaviors toward the organization. When an employee perceives support from their organization and supervisor, they become ready to take the risk (Abid et al., 2015). When employees perceive favor from the organization in the form of coaching behaviors of their supervisors (Sonenshein et al., 2013), in exchange 805