---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7e5232bab4df07775d91461ee0ff91e8d5c52bf1
title: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion
---
# Shore and Chung

supports the value provided to individual employees, their work groups, and their organizations. Leader inclusion is a style that promotes psychological safety, work group identiﬁcation, and psychological empowerment. All three of these mechanisms have been established as supporting positive employee attitudes and performance (Bhatnagar, 2012; Edmondson & Lei,2014; Riketta & Van Dick, 2005). Leader inclusion involves creating an environment in which their employee can be their unique selves while still being treated as valued insiders. In some ways, this is counter to human social identity processes in which similarity is more strongly associated with in-group status and belongingness, and dissimilarity is more likely associated with out-group status and uniqueness. One way to tackle this challenge is for inclusive leaders to build “superordinate identities” (Gaertner & Dovidio, 2000), in which all members of the work group, regardless of marginalized social identities, are deemed in-group members. Inclusive leaders who display behaviors that promote the experience of belongingness and uniqueness for all work group members provide an environment in which members (even stigmatized members) are likely to feel that they are part of the in-group. The comparison of leader inclusion with leader assimilation, leader differentiation, and leader exclusion (each discussed below) clearly highlights the value of inclusionary activities by the leader for employees, work groups, and organizations.

The Leader Emphasizing Assimilation By virtue of their behaviors, leaders can send signals that ﬁtting into the dominant culture in the organization is the best path for subordinates to take. Akin to the discrimination and fairness perspective (Ely & Thomas, 2001), the leader’s emphasis is on equity and treating everyone the same. Employees are accepted by the leader as long as they adhere to the rules of engagement which is often constructed by the dominant culture. For individuals who identify with the dominant culture, this would not necessarily be problematic. That is, assimilation would not necessarily prohibit experiences of inclusion for these individuals as it might for individuals with marginalized social identities. Leaders with this orientation are often seen as “well-intended” given that their core belief is that equality and fair treatment is a moral imperative. While this is a worthy principle, acting in this manner requires two norms of their employees: (1) to suppress any differences that do exist and in essence avoid conﬂict whenever possible and (2) to assimilate to the dominant culture in the organization which is often a white cultural standard (Ely & Thomas, 2001). Assimilation is a form of partial inclusion (Schein, 1970), where the or- ganization is a multilayered system with many limits and ﬁlters that restrict access for certain types of individuals. This is an in-between space that
