# Group & Organization Management 0(0)

treated as an insider by the leader enhances the employee’s experience of belonging in the work group. This inclusive treatment thus facilitates em- ployee identiﬁcation with the work group. Such identiﬁcation is beneﬁcial to the individual through improvements in their job satisfaction and to other employees as it leads to work group extra-role behavior (Riketta & Van Dick, 2005). Likewise, Riketta and Van Dick argued based on their meta-analysis that work group identiﬁcation as compared with organizational identiﬁcation is a more salient unit that serves “employees’ needs for optimal distinc- tiveness” (p. 504). Work group diversity and group identiﬁcation are more positively related the more individuals believe in the value of diversity (Van Knippenberg, Haslam, & Platow, 2007). As with psychological safety, work group identiﬁcation promotes employee activities that serve the interests of the group as a whole. Therefore, it is important that leaders are motivated to facilitate work group identiﬁcation by displaying behaviors that promote an employee’s perceptions of belongingness while also experiencing that they are valued for their uniqueness. The latter is especially important for employees who are members of marginalized social identity groups (Van Knippenberg & Van Ginkel, 2021) who are seeking conﬁrmation that they are valued group members.

Thomas and Velthouse (1990) deﬁned psychological empowerment as intrinsic motivation expressed in four cognitions reﬂecting an individual’s orientation to his or her work role: meaning, competence, self-determination, and impact. When group members experience leader inclusion, the oppor- tunities they have for expressing their opinions, behaving authentically, and contributing to work-related decisions provide for psychological empower- ment (Randel et al., 2018). Inﬂuence on decision-making “occurs when employees believe that their ideas and perspectives are inﬂuential, and that they are listened to” (Shore et al., 2018, p. 185). This is often identiﬁed as a key element of inclusion (Mor Barak & Cherin, 1998; Mor Barak & Daya, 2014; Nishii, 2013; Sabharwal, 2014). Psychological empowerment is positively related to work engagement and innovation and negatively to turnover in- tentions (Bhatnagar, 2012). Likewise, Spreitzer, De Janasz, and Quinn (1999) found in a study of supervisors that their subordinates viewed their empowered supervisors as more innovative, upward inﬂuencing, and inspirational.

In sum, all three of these psychological mechanisms result from the leader inclusionary treatment that generates feelings of inclusion. Leader inclusion helps to alleviate fears of being punished or rejected for being different (Kahn, 1990; Roberson & Perry, 2021) which may be particularly important for employees who are members of marginalized social identity groups (Singh, Winkel, & Selvarajan, 2013). As pointed out by Van Knippenberg and Van Ginkel (2021), “participation and inﬂuence in the information elaboration