# Group & Organization Management 0(0)

While there are many studies and theories of leadership, research on inclusive leadership has only received attention recently (Boekhorst, 2015; Booysen, 2014; Ferdman, In Press; Gallegos, 2014; Henderson, 2014). This is not surprising considering the limited research on inclusion at work more broadly (Shore et al., 2011) and some confusion as to the meaning of inclusion (Chung et al., 2020). As scholarship on inclusion continues to grow, there is an obvious need to develop clear and compelling conceptual work on what leader inclusion is and is not. Importantly, it is still unclear as to what leaders need to do to be inclusive, and how some leader behaviors and styles which are well intended may have the opposite effect and discourage inclusion.

In this article, we use Shore’s et al. (2011) four-quadrant model of work group inclusion to develop a basis for deﬁning and articulating ways in which leaders may support and encourage inclusion and also ways in which leaders may discourage or prevent inclusion in the work group. Through linking leadership to Shore’s et al. (2011) model, we seek to clarify how leader inclusion operates as compared with other leadership approaches. We highlight the psychological mechanisms of psychological safety, psycho- logical empowerment, and work group identiﬁcation among employees that result from experiences of leader inclusion. Following, we integrate research on diversity that underscores the challenges and impediments to an inclusive work group that the leader must address (cf. Ely & Thomas, 2001). Finally, we present ideas for becoming an inclusive leader.

Shore et al. (2011) deﬁne inclusion as “the degree to which an employee perceives that he or she is an esteemed member of the work group through experiencing treatment that satisﬁes his or her needs for belongingness and uniqueness” (p. 1265). This deﬁnition is theoretically built on optimal dis- tinctiveness theory (Brewer, 2012) which argues that people have the need to be both similar and different from others simultaneously (Brewer, 1991). Similarity increases the chance that an individual will be welcomed in a group and thus increases fulﬁllment of the need to belong, whereas difference is related to recognition of ways in which a person is distinctive, increasing possible fulﬁllment of need for uniqueness. To satisfy a vital human need for belongingness (Baumeister & Leary, 1995), people seek acceptance into groups that they identify with. An employee’s belongingness needs at work can be fulﬁlled by forming and maintaining strong and constructive rela- tionships with the leader and with members of the work group. Being a valued group insider has beneﬁts other than fulﬁlling needs for belongingness as there are advantages associated with favoritism and in-group bias among members (Tajfel & Turner, 1986).