data/clean/inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis__chunk0072.md, before:

# Roberson and Perry

promoting inclusion may be effective for understanding the breadth of in- clusive leadership and the range of effects on employee inclusion experiences. Future research could also beneﬁt from an examination of outcomes of the inclusive leadership behaviors identiﬁed in this study. As prior research suggests that leader inclusiveness enhances psychological safety and work engagement (Nembhard & Edmondson, 2006; Choi, Tran, & Park, 2015), studies for exploring the degree to which behaviors highlighted here for inviting and appreciating others’ perspectives and skills, even when they diverge from established norms or are in conﬂict with established views, and leveraging and enhancing employee contributions may advance our un- derstanding of the inﬂuence of inclusive leadership. Based on research that shows leader openness to, and respect for, new ideas and feedback facilitates a supportive climate in which employees feel comfortable experimenting and offering alternative perspectives (Choi et al., 2015, Choi, Tran, & Kang, 2017; Javed et al., 2017; Qi, Liu, Wei, & Hu, 2019), studies to investigate the relationship between inclusive leadership behaviors and employee creativity and innovation would help us to further understand its impact. As feelings of psychological safety resultingfrom leader inclusiveness have also been shown to inﬂuence employee learning from errors and failures (Hirak, Peng, Carmeli, & Schaubroeck, 2012; Ye, Wang, & Li, 2018), research to observe associ- ations between speciﬁc inclusive leadership behaviors and various perfor- mance measures may be useful for highlighting how this approach affects group and organizational functioning.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis__chunk0072.md, after:

---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 531350a684e2e5446f5bf34ecd412aee4b301c09
title: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis
---
## Limitations and Future Research Directions

As with any study, there are limitations that should be acknowledged. Given our sample, we should be cautious in presuming the generalizability of the research ﬁndings. Speciﬁcally, with a relatively small sample, we may have detected more variability in our results, thus reducing the reliability of ﬁndings. While themes emerged within the data, a larger sample may reduce the magnitude of speciﬁc themes or be useful for detecting superordinate categories related to inclusive leadership. Our ability to draw conclusions about universal approaches to inclusive leadership would be further strengthened by data collection outside of the sampling organization as multiple source data would allow us to rule out the likelihood that themes identiﬁed in this study are speciﬁc to our research site. Therefore, future research is needed to assess inclusive leadership and its demonstration across a variety of contexts ranging in size, industry, mission and strategy, and culture. Further, while we did not capture leader individual differences in order to maintain a level of anonymity, data from a larger and diverse group of leaders may help to offer additional insight into antecedents of inclusive leadership and enhance the reproducibility of our ﬁndings.

There are also disadvantages to our methodology as our results are con- strained by the reliability and validity of the questions posed to respondents. While our approach allowed them to describe in their own words the meaning and enactment of inclusive leadership, their responses may have been inﬂuenced by our phrasing. Speciﬁcally, by asking about the demonstration of inclusive leadership, respondents may have focused on strategies for pre- senting as inclusive leaders or on an ideal set of behaviors rather than on actual behaviors. Accordingly, future research using interview data from leaders or matched data from employees may offer additional insight into what leaders can actually do to create and maintain inclusive environments. Further, re- search to assess leader behaviors for reducing employee exclusion and
