# Group & Organization Management 0(0)

switches between inclusion and exclusion. Partial inclusion is a situation in which individuals gain entry into the group or organization but do not fully achieve a state in which they are fully valued, respected, and supported in terms of their uniqueness (Giovanni, 2004). One feature of partial inclusion is the need for individuals to be socialized within the organization. During this process, the organization exerts signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the individual. The individual is only partially included in the sense that the leader accepts and utilizes only a portion of the individual–—the part that adheres to the or- ganizational culture. In this way, employees must set aside some aspects of themselves in order to ﬁt within the group and the organization (Dawson, 2006). Tension is created as minorities may seek acceptance, power, and control while also having the desire to maintain their own individuality and cultural identity. In other words, acceptance into the group or organization requires members of marginalized groups to become competent in the dominant culture as well as their own culture. This ability to function in and move back and forth between these two cultures is referred to as biculturalism (Richard and Grimes, 1996). Bicultural employees have to learn both written and unwritten rules for success including dress codes, preferred communi- cation styles, ways to use career development programs, ways to build professional and personal support networks, and how to establish a mentoring relationship (Van Den Bergh, 1991). While learning and operating in the dominant culture, they remain members of a minority group that is often deemed subordinate to the dominant culture (Barrett, Cervero, & Johnson- Bailey, 2003). In other words, minority employees often have to hide their own, less-valued culture to adhere to the operating norms of the dominant culture.

Leaders who hold this orientation tend to behave in ways that support the dominant culture. The belief is that they are helping the employees by teaching them how to function well within the dominant culture so that they can enhance their performance and have greater opportunities for promotions. According to the Shore et al. (2011) model, leaders with this orientation will treat the employee as an insider but only if they conform to the dominant they will emphasize belongingness and norms of the culture. That downplay uniqueness. They will make the employee feel like they belong only if conformity is achievedand uniqueness is suppressed. As aresult, since work group identiﬁcation is related to feelings of belongingness, work group identiﬁcationis likely to belower for minorities than members of the dominant culture. Leaders working from an assimilation orientation will signal that individuals should downplay ways in which they are different in order to belong. For example, leaders might tell employees how they should dress in a way that is acceptable or conforms to corporate culture. They might give

is,