---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 09e118b1091d57c16479adb03c8fb1729cba8c1b
title: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion
---
# Shore and Chung

a qualitative study in which members of minority groups used their differ- entiation as a resource to beneﬁt their organization. The authors identiﬁed some tensions that individuals experienced in this role. First, the fear that they will be viewed as being capable of doing only minority group-related work. Second, concern about the possibility that they will be perceived as disruptive or offensive. Third, the worry that they will be perceived as positively biased toward other members of their marginalized social identity group. Fourth, concern that they will reinforce existing stereotypes about their minority group. These fears point to the importance of the leader in reinforcing the value of minority social identities. If the leader communicates that women and nonwhite race/ethnicity members are hired merely for the beneﬁt of the or- ganization while communicating that the employee is not an organizational insider, then differentiation is likely to be experienced.

When leaders have a differentiation orientation, employees might also experience stereotype threat (Steele & Aronson, 1995). According to stereotype threat theory (Steele, 1997), performance suffers when negative stereotypes are activated in a performance situation and when the performance domain is self- relevant for the individual. Given that an employee may believe they are in their current position because of their uniqueness, they may feel a heightened sense that they are responsible for behavinginwaysthat donot perpetuate stereotypes for their race, ethnicity, or gender. For example, an Asian American employee could believe they were hired in order to market company products specif- ically to the Asian American community. However, due to their differentiated status, they may feel pressure to perform in ways that do not perpetuate any negative stereotypes such as having poor language skills or poor leadership skills (Sy et al., 2010) thereby activating stereotype threat. The degree to which the leader emphasizes this employee’s differentiated status, the stronger the threat may become.

According to the Shore et al. (2011) framework, differentiation leaders will value employees for their uniqueness but will not necessarily make the employee feel like they are truly accepted or belong. The employee’s views might be accepted but only when it relates to the employee’s “specialty” area or area of differentiation. That is, differentiation leaders will only exhibit belongingness behaviors in relation to areas in which employees are seen as valuable to the organization. Sometimes, the leader will isolate their em- ployees or subject them to race-based or other negative stereotypes. As a result, since overall feelings of belongingness is likely to be low, overall work group identiﬁcation is likely to be low as well. For employees that work in an isolated unit (e.g., Spanish-speaking branch of the department), there might be high work group identiﬁcation within the isolated unit but low work group identiﬁcation overall with the larger department.
