# Group & Organization Management 47(4)

others. He contends that we experience less anxiety if our need to be “in the group” matches the degree to which we want others to “include us.” This suggests that it is beneﬁcial when leaders engage in behaviors to include all followers, but not to the extent that the individual differences of others get muted or lost in the process. As individuals from diverse social and cultural groups are often excluded from networks of information and opportunity in organizations (Ibarra, 1993; Pettigrew & Martin, 1989), inclusion has also been used to describe worker participation and empowerment. For example, Mor-Barak and Cherin (1998) deﬁne inclusion as the extent to which in- dividuals can access information and resources, are involved in work groups, and have the ability to inﬂuence decision-making processes. Rather than emphasizing difference as an organizational commodity, inclusion is focused on the degree to which individuals feel a part of critical organizational processes (Roberson, 2006). While it encapsulates diversity in its various forms, including characteristics that are both observable and unobservable within a social system and recognizes such diversity as a means for achieving collective goals, inclusion requires that all individuals feel able to fully and meaningfully contribute to shared goals regardless of group memberships and to do so without assimilating to established norms or relinquishing any part of their identity (Ferdman, 2014).

In conceptualizing inclusion, researchers have proposed a variety of in- dicators. For example, deﬁning inclusion as the degree to which people feel involved in critical work processes, Mor-Barak and Cherin (1998) argue that individuals’ access to information and resources, input into goals and work design, and inﬂuence over decisions are reﬂective of their inclusion expe- riences at work. Similarly, Pelled, Ledford, and Mohrman (1999) describe inclusion as “the degree to which an employee is accepted and treated as an insider by others in a work system” (p. 1014) and rely on the extent to which employees have inﬂuence over decisions that affect them at work, are kept well-informed about the company’s business strategies and goals, and are likely to retain their jobs as indicators of inclusion. Others have discovered additional yet macro-level attributes of inclusion, such as employee in- volvement and participatory work systems, information sharing and 360- degree communication, and power sharing (Roberson, 2006).

Given the identiﬁcation of organizational factors that may be indicative of inclusive work environments, it is important to understand leaders’ role in shaping such environments. A body of research has explored inclusive lead- ership to understand leadership approaches and behaviors for driving employee experiences of inclusion at work. However, such research has been conducted from two different theoretical perspectives—diversity and leadership. Below, we review the ﬁndings of inclusive leadership research from these perspectives.