## Inclusive Leadership From a Diversity Perspective

Diversity researchers view inclusive leadership as behaviors to create the psychological experience of feeling connected within organizations. This experience is rooted in the concept of inclusion, which derives from socio- psychological theories that describe humans’ fundamental need to afﬁliate with others, such as human motivation (Maslow, 1943), social comparison (Festinger, 1954), and the belongingness hypothesis (Baumeister & Leary, 1995). According to these theories, the desire to form and maintain mean- ingful relationships with others is central to individuals’ physical and psy- chological well-being as people use such relationships as a gauge of their acceptance by, or position within, social groups. Consequently, individuals are motivated to monitor the social environment for indicators of the degree to which they are treated as an insider. Research also suggests that this need to be part of a group is balanced by a need to maintain their own individuality. Based on optimal distinctiveness theory (Brewer, 1991), which posits that individuals strive to balance their basic human need to be part of larger social groups with their need to maintain a distinctive self-concept, some diversity researchers describe inclusion in terms of the tension between human motives for belonging and differentiation that regulate a person’s capacity for group identiﬁcation. For example, inclusion has been explained as individuals’ full participation in work environments, including equal access to decision- making and positions of power, but also as being invited to participate be- cause of their differences (Holvino, Ferdman, & Merrill-Sands, 2004). Shore et al. (2011) deﬁne inclusion as “the degree to which an employee perceives that he or she is an esteemed member of the work group through experiencing treatment that satisﬁes his or her needs for belongingness and uniqueness” (p. 1265). Following this conceptualization, indicators of inclusion incorporate opportunities for individuals to contribute, and be appreciated for, their unique perspectives and talents.

Because leader values and actions inﬂuence member experiences within work groups, they are considered to be essential to creating such environments (Ferdman, 2014). Accordingly, inclusive leadership encapsulates a set of leader behaviors to foster a sense of inclusion among members of a group. From a diversity perspective, this leadership approach captures differences in its various forms within a social system and recognizes differences as a means for achieving collective goals (Holvino et al., 2004). Further, inclusive lead- ership necessitates that all individuals have the ability to fully and meaningfully contribute to shared goals regardless of group memberships and to do so without assimilating to established norms and relinquishing any of part of their identity (Ferdman, 2014). In effect, inclusive leadership is proposed