---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5252b59333ad6b676564ed70abc1a9f7c21318f7
title: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis
---
# Roberson and Perry

leadership that establishes norms of active consultation and participation to drive shared decision-making within a team or organization (Nembhard & Edmondson, 2006). Distinguished from participative leadership, inclusive approaches refer to situations in which members’ statuses vary according to the degree to which they are considered insiders and behaviors for including the perspectives and opinions of those who might otherwise be ignored (Edmondson, 1996, 2003). Accordingly, high-quality relationships between leaders and their followers signal norms of equality and power sharing and subsequently inclusiveness (Hollander, 2009; Nishii & Mayer, 2009). Deriving from the concept of inclusion, researchers also view inclusive leadership as behaviors to create the psychological experience of feeling a sense of uniqueness and belonging within a team or organization (Randel et al., 2018). For example, behaviors to encourage employee differences in perspectives and approaches and fully incorporate them into the group’s work are posited to facilitate feelings of uniqueness while those to treat all employees fairly, support their ideas, and share decision-making are con- sidered to facilitate perceptions of belongingness. Still, as few studies have explored the demonstration of inclusive leadership, our understanding of what leaders do in an attempt to create inclusive environments is limited. This study explores the concept and enactment of inclusive leadership from a leader perspective. Through manual and assisted thematic analyses of leaders’ written responses to questions regarding how they perceive and demonstrate inclusive leadership, we investigate how leaders do sensemaking about what it means to be inclusive. Consistent with early work in this area (see Edmondson, 2003), this qualitative design allowed us to diverge from researchers’ conceptions of inclusive leadership and examine the phenom- enon from leaders’ unguided perspectives. In addition, it enabled us to explore the richness of people’s natural language accounts of how they enact inclusive leadership and to detect themes, patterns, and nuances that might not be revealed through other methodologies. Accordingly, this study provides in- sight into how leaders view and interpret their experiences with being in- clusive or their relative sensitivity to various facets of those experiences. These design features also enable our aims of advancing our theoretical understanding of the concept of inclusive leadership.
