# Shore and Chung

process of team members with an underrepresented background are under greater pressure than the participation of members with a traditionally dominant, majority background” (p. in this issue). The resulting psychological safety and psychological empowerment associated with being treated in- clusively by the leader promote sharing of unique perspectives and experi- ences in work groups.

While the experience of belongingness resulting from inclusionary treatment by the leader is a key basis for enhancing work group identiﬁcation, for employees with stigmatized social identities, such identiﬁcation may not be enhanced unless they are also valued for their uniqueness (Randel et al., 2016). The value in uniqueness combined with belongingness lays the groundwork for all of these psychological mechanisms, which in turn, en- hance employee contributions to the work group and organization. As yet, limited research has established linkages between these three psychological mechanisms and the work group experiences of employees who are members of marginalized social identity groups. Below, we describe some of the early stage research which suggests that these three mechanisms may be particularly important for these employees.

Research on the role of psychological safety for minoritized employees is suggestive of its importance. Singh et al. (2013) found that in a supportive diversity climate, employees felt psychologically safe expressing their identities, which inﬂuenced their in-role and extra-role performance. How- ever, the relationship between diversity climate and psychological safety was stronger for minorities than for whites, and the relationship between psy- chological safety and OCB-interpersonal was stronger for minorities than for whites. These ﬁndings suggest that psychological safety is particularly im- portant for minority employees, and leader inclusion, as an antecedent, can play a major role in encouraging psychological safety for people of color. Work group identiﬁcation is a mechanism that also can beneﬁt from considering diversity of the work group. Chattopadhyay, George, and Shulman (2008) found that for women, sex dissimilarity with the work group was related to lower levels of work group identiﬁcation and higher perceived levels of task and emotional conﬂict, whereas men in these work groups did not have such effects when they were more dissimilar from their group members. The authors concluded that the context ampliﬁes for women the extent to which they are categorized based on their sex with the associated lower status afforded women. Given these types of results, this indicates that minoritized employees who are in a compositional minority in the work group may need the reassurance provided by a manager who is high on leader inclusion in order to fulﬁll belongingness needs through work group identiﬁcation.