---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 947c3eaadda7bd0f8c3a541f01f76e4b80e98562
title: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion
---
# Shore and Chung

refers to failing to ‘walk the talk’ (Brunsson, 1989; Oliver, 1991). In the context of inclusion, decoupling indicates a gap between the adoption of policies intended to treat all employees fairly,value them for who they are, and involve them in organizational processes and decision-making, and the actual fulﬁllment of actions to engage in these behaviors” (p. in this issue). Leaders can seek to create the type of integration of policies and practices that promote inclusion in the work group, but also have awareness that they may need to serve as a buffer for employees who are members of mar- ginalized social identity groups. These employees are more likely than white men to experience exclusion, assimilation, or differentiation. To accomplish this, the leader may need to serve as an ally for these members (Hebl, Cheng, & Ng, 2020) when there are situations in which low inclusion may be taking place. This can occur in the work group itself among coworkers, or in the broader organization. The inclusive leader needs to be aware of people or situations that are likely sources of low inclusion and make efforts to fa- cilitate psychological safety and psychological empowerment for margin- alized members of their work group.

It can be difﬁcult for members of privileged social identities to have awareness of their own advantages (Pratto & Stewart, 2012) and to con- currently perceive when employees with marginalized identities are treated in ways that make them an outsider at work. Marginalized employees have backgrounds and experiences that are quite different than those who are privileged, and the expectation that majority member norms should be op- erational, inﬂexible, and unchanged in an organization, that all members should know and effectively follow the “rules of the game” is both unrealistic and unfair. It may be common for privileged leaders to consider themselves fair when they engage in equal rather than equitable treatment. Although both equality and equity are presumed to promote fairness, equality attains this through treating everyone the same regardless of need, while equity achieves this through treating people differently dependent on need. By implementing equitable practices, recognizing that not everyone has had the same advan- tages, opportunities, or experiences, the leader can ensure a more welcoming and inclusive environment that facilitates the experience of being an insider for all members of the work group.

This article highlights the value of leader inclusion but describes three other leader orientations of exclusion, assimilation, and differentiation which can be harmful to all employees but especially to employees with margin- alized social identities. This raises questions as to whether a leader can be- come more inclusive, and if so, what are some initial steps a leader can take toward this goal? Below, we share several ideas for increasing leader inclusion in organizations.
