---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1bd65775d8ae7a96aba77d019f3785f5a9552d25
title: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis
---
# Roberson and Perry

status relationships. The ﬁndings showed that nurse managers and surgeon team leaders who proactively invited and acknowledged others’ input helped team members to feel greater psychological safety in the team (Edmondson, 1996, 2003). Based on this evidence, Nembhard and Edmondson (2006) put forth the concept of leader inclusiveness, which represents words and actions by leaders to include the opinions and contributions of all employees. With a focus employee involvement in decision-making and empowerment, in- clusive leadership is considered to be related to participative leadership. Yet, it is considered to be a unique approach given its relevance in situations characterized by status or power differences, which constrain the ability of some groups to express themselves and feel that their contributions are valued (Nemhard & Edmondson, 2006). Inclusive leadership is argued to be ap- plicable to situations in which members’statuses vary according to the degree to which they are considered insiders and incorporates behaviors to include those whose perspectives and opinions might otherwise be ignored (Hollander, 2009). As such, it is considered to be characterized by be- haviors that invite and genuinely appreciate others’ views and expertise regardless of group memberships or background (see Nemhard & Edmondson, 2006).

Edmondson (2004) proposed indicators of inclusive leadership. Speciﬁ- cally, she speculated that leaders who are available and accessible to em- ployees both physically and psychologically may help to create a climate of approachability, which reduces barriers to voice and input. Edmondson (2004) also reasoned that because leaders model acceptable behavior in teams, displaying an openness to others’ points of view may encourage employees to more freely share their thoughts and be receptive to others’ input. Consistent with this model of inclusive leadership, Carmeli, Reiter-Palmon, and Ziv (2010) developed a measure that speciﬁes behavioral manifestations of these indicators. Through this measure, they suggest that a leader’s discernable presence and readiness for consultation on any issue helps to communicate norms of availability and accessibility. In addition, they speculate that a leader’s attentiveness to, and encouragement of, opportunities to improve work processes and achieve group goals convey norms of openness that embolden employees to take risks.

Despite research that explores elements of inclusive leadership, there are some limitations. While some researchers have attempted to conceptualize inclusive leadership, it has at times been used as an all-encompassing con- struct for any approach to leadership that incorporates behaviors to form high- quality interpersonal relationships with followers and show appreciation and support for their efforts (Javed, Naqvi, Khan, Arjoon, & Tayyeb, 2017). As a result, ﬁndings regarding dimensions of participative, servant, and other
