# Group & Organization Management 47(4)

leveraging diversity to enhance team performance emerged. Leaders described the utilization of diverse perspectives and skills within a team as a facet of inclusive leadership yet also noted the importance of building and maintaining environments that enable employee contributions, such as treating employees equitably and creating a sense of empowerment, in order to do so.

In line with the belongingness component of work group inclusion (Shore et al., 2011), our results also suggest a shared identity as a component of inclusive leadership. Speciﬁcally, leaders highlighted collaborative ap- proaches to work and employee involvement in critical work processes as important to leader inclusiveness. However, as our ﬁndings also emphasize the importance of reducing status differences, we might extrapolate that inclusive leadership involves something more than leaders facilitating par- ticipation and creating a sense of community. Leaders in this study em- phasized the importance of developing and maintaining interpersonal relationships with followers by relating to, and showing a genuine interest in, others. With listening and learning from others’ perspectives and generating trust from others on the team also salient, our results may underscore the relational aspect of inclusive leadership. Speciﬁcally, while leaders may build environments that engage and leverage the diversity of perspectives within a team, inclusion may be driven by the two-way inﬂuence processes that help to generate trust between leaders and followers (see Uhl-Bien, 2006). Such interactions may help to abate the effects of power and status differences and develop relationships that create the experience for team members of feeling like an insider and subsequently included.

We also recognized a category of comments focused on the importance of inclusive leadership mindsets. Some leaders noted “allowing” for employee action within the work environment, such as allowing people to feel they can be their authentic selves or allowing diverse employees to contribute. On one hand, such comments may highlight the role of leader intention in creating psychologically safe work environments. On the other hand, they may capture respondent perceptions of the roles of power andstatusin inclusive leadership. Allowing follower action may be reﬂective of leaders recognizing yet at- tempting to diminish power and status differences within the team. They may also be indicative of a more informal leadership component, which can be exercised outside of a leader’s formal or positional authority. Allowing team member action may be used to signal inclusion in the form of legitimacy with the norms, values, and approaches accepted by the work group (see Zelditch, 2001), although the resultant experience for members may differ from that conceptualized in the inclusion literature. Thus, while creating a space in which employees can be themselves and contribute to work discussions and decisions is important for inclusive leadership, the ﬁndings of our study