# The Leader Emphasizing Differentiation

The leader in this quadrant is one that believes in the business case for di- versity (Robinson & Dechant, 1997) or the notion that diversity can be leveraged for cost savings as well as for driving growth and market share. That is, the business case for diversity may reinforce this approach to leadership when the leader is uncomfortable with cultural differences but understands that organizational beneﬁts of diversity have been shown. Based on a large national sample of corporations, Herring (2017) concluded that sales rev- enues, greater number of customers, higher than average shares of the market, and proﬁts relative to competitors all beneﬁted from greater racial and gender diversity. Thus, these differentiation-oriented leaders are cognizant that di- versity is important to the success of the organization, and they will use employees strategically for the beneﬁt of the company. Akin to the access- and-legitimacy perspective on diversity (Ely & Thomas, 2001), this leader understands that the organization’s markets and constituencies are culturally diverse and that it is important for the organization to match that diversity in parts of its own workforce in order to capture those markets and constituents. However, with thisdifferentiationperspective,the leader treats these employees as a separate group who are important to their success and the larger organization but are still marginalized and not directly integrated into the core functions of the larger organization. This perspective leads to a race-based, gender-based, or ethnicity-based division of labor and employees who are members of these social identities are used primarily to gain access to diverse markets and clients.

With a differentiation orientation, employees will feel more like a “token” (Kanter, 1977), where they have been hired because they are in a certain social category (gender and race) but experience limited acceptance by members of the organization. Similar to assimilation, there is differential power and status associated with differentiation. With token status, the employee may be exposed to negative attitudes and behaviors due to out-group bias by others (Yilmaz & Dalkilic, 2019) and may never feel like they are a full, contributing member of the group (Laws, 1975). Cha and Roberts (2019) conducted