---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2aec3cb516e228b8568b58e5a562a781d656713d
title: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion
---
# Group & Organization Management 0(0)

best interests in mind (Mor Barak & Cherin, 1998; Nembhard & Edmondson, 2006). Second, ensuring justice and equity requires that inclusive leaders show fair treatment of group members and thus indicate to members that they are a respected member of the group (Lind & Tyler, 1988; Sabharwal, 2014; Shore et al., 2011). Third, shared decision-making is also important for fa- cilitating belongingness (Mor Barak & Cherin, 1998; Nembhard & Edmondson, 2006; Nishii, 2013; Roberson, 2006). Two behaviors were proposed for encouraging value in uniqueness. The leader should encourage diverse contributions (e.g., Mor Barak & Daya, 2014; Shore et al., 2011; Winters, 2014) by seeking different points of view and approaches. Finally, helping group members fully contributes by urging individuals who otherwise might not feel that their contributions are welcome to experience their unique value by bringing their authentic selves to work. Their model proposed that these leader inclusion behaviors lead to individual member experiences of work group inclusion and subsequent work group identiﬁcation and psy- chological empowerment.

While there is limited empirical research, the current evidence is generally quite supportive of the value of leader inclusion in facilitating positive outcomes in diverse teams. Ashikali, Groeneveld, and Kuipers (2020) ex- amined average inclusive leadership in teams, basing their measure on Shore et al. (2011) theoretical descriptions of inclusion involving high belong- ingness and high value in uniqueness. Their ﬁndings showed that greater team diversity did not automatically yield an inclusive climate. Instead, they concluded that inclusive leadership was critical for cultivating an inclusive climate in diverse teams. In addition, Randel, Dean, Ehrhart, Chung, and Shore (2016) found that when leader inclusiveness was high, this was sat- isfactory for facilitating leader-directed helping behavior among men and whites even when psychological diversity climate was not high; however, women and racioethnic minorities lowered their leader-directed helping be- havior when the leader was inclusive and the diversity climate was not high. Likewise, Nishii and Mayer (2009) operationalized inclusive leadership at a group level as involving a high group mean on leader–member exchange (LMX) and low LMX differentiation (low variability). They showed that the relationship between demographic diversity and turnover was negative when groups experienced high leader inclusion. In addition, the greatest turnover ensued when only some and not all members of diverse work groups had a high-quality relationship with the manager. This study suggests the im- portance of consistently positive relations between the leader and followers in diverse teams. Another study examined inclusive leadership and professional diversity (Mitchell et al., 2015). In this study, diverse Australian healthcare teams were investigated over a 12-month period. The authors found that
