# Group & Organization Management 47(4)

a belongingness theme of cultivating regular team interactions emerged, leadership actions related to creating a sense of uniqueness were also ref- erenced by respondents. Such themes included recruiting, hiring, and re- taining a diverse staff; encouraging and valuing diverse work styles and contributions; and acknowledging and accounting for individual needs. Themes relatedto the utilization of employee uniqueness, such as encouraging employees to voice their opinions and share feedback in different ways and inviting disagreement and debate, were also present. Leaders also recalled behaviors focused on creating opportunities for staff contributions, in par- ticular through being available and responsive to all staff. The results also revealed several themes unassociated with inclusive leadership in extant research in leaders’ descriptions of their demonstration of inclusive leadership. Speciﬁcally, role modeling emotional intelligence and cultural competence, showing appreciation for people’s talents and work, and developing others were key themes.

Our assisted analysis of responses to the question on the demonstration of inclusive leadership yielded six second-order themes, as shown in Figure 2. In demonstrating inclusive leadership, respondents emphasized practices to attract, leverage, and retain diversity in their teams. In addition, they high- lighted actions to recognize and use unique member skills and contributions that accompany such diversity. To further demonstrate inclusive leadership,

Figure 2. Emergent themes from assisted content analysis: demonstration of inclusive leadership.