---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b5044fc9527d59ed7dd34a842fe33cf28f787a85
title: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion
---
# Shore and Chung

social exclusion. Hales, Ren, and Williams (2016) suggested that there are three purposes of ostracism that might apply to leader exclusion. First, to protect groups from problematic members. Second, to reveal to individuals that their behavior needs modiﬁcation to remain in the group. Third, to remove deviant individuals who resist correction. Nezlek, Wesselmann, Wheeler, and Williams (2012) also found that ostracizers were motivated by self-protection. Rejection is likely to be similar to ostracism in terms of motivation of the perpetrator. However, microaggressions are more speciﬁcally associated with marginalized social identities. While likewise forms of social exclusion by the leader, the bias associated with them is also prone to reﬂect the attitudes of the leader toward the particular social group the individual belongs to.

Leader exclusion can have harmful effects at multiple levels and can cause particularly damaging experiences to group members (Fiset, Hajj, & Vongas, 2017). The leader may justify an exclusionary orientation for the good of the group as a whole or in the case of microaggressions, may not even recognize that their actions are harmful to an employee with a marginalized social identity. For the employee, a core issue is the perceived threat to their sense of belonging in the work group (Robinson & Schabram, 2017). Exclusion impedes the opportunity to buildthe social relationships in the workgroup that can lead to belongingness. Since the leader is in a position of power in the group, this may be especially likely. The experience of belongingness means that the employee is part of the in-group and likely receiving beneﬁts from their status. In contrast, leader exclusion can lead to expectations by the recipient that they are in the out-group and unlikely to be treated as well as others in the work group. The leader who engages in exclusion may assume that the employee will learn a valuable lesson and carefully manage their behavior to comply with work group or organizational norms in the future. But in light of the evidence linking exclusion to many negative outcomes for the target and for the organization (Howard et al., 2020), such a leader orientation may well have more negative than positive effects.

The exclusive leader also risks alienating other employees who observe the exclusion. If the employee is dissimilar to the leader and/or the work group, other employees who observe the exclusion are more likely to attribute the exclusion to malicious motives of the leader, such as in-group favoritism, and devalue the leader (Rudert, Sutter, Corrodi, & Greifeneder, 2018). Leader exclusion may thus decrease the support of other group members for their leader if those members make the moral judgment that the treatment was unfair. This is especially likely if the target employee is a minority group member working in a predominantly white group. This raises questions as to whether the diversity of the work context is related to members of minority groups experiencing more exclusion than whites. Recent research from a cross
