data/clean/inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis__chunk0088.md, before:

# Roberson and Perry

Nishii, L. H., & Mayer, D. M. (2009). Do inclusive leaders help to reduce turnover in diverse groups? The moderating role of leader-member exchange in the diversity to turnover relationship. Journal of Applied Psychology, 94, 1412-1426. doi:10. 1037/a0017190.

Pelled, L. H., Ledford, G. E. Jr., & Mohrman, S. A. (1999). Demographic dissimilarity and workplace inclusion. Journal of Management Studies, 36, 1013-1031. doi:10. 1111/1467-6486.00168.

Pettigrew, T. F., & Martin, J. (1989). Organizational inclusion of minority groups: A social psychological analysis. In J. P. Van Oudenhoven, & T. M. Willemsen (Eds.), Ethnic minorities: Social psychological perspectives (pp. 169-200). Berwyn, PA: Swets North America.

Qi, L., Liu, B., Wei X., & Hu, Y. (2019). Impact of inclusive leadership on innovative behavior: Perceived innovative support as a mediator. PLos One, 14, 1-14. doi:10. 1371/journal.pone.0212091.

Randel, A. E., Galvin, B. M., Shore, L. M., Ehrhart, K. H., Chung, B. G., Dean, M. A., & Kedharnath, U. (2018). Inclusive leadership: Realizing positive outcomes through belongingness and being valued for uniqueness. Human Resource Management Review, 28, 190-203. doi:10.1016/j.hrmr.2017.07.002.

Roberson, Q. M. (2006). Disentangling the meanings of diversity and inclusion in organizations. Group & Organization Management, 31, 212-236. doi:10.1177/ 1059601104273064.

Schutz, W. (1958). FIRO: A three-dimensional theory of interpersonal behavior. New

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis__chunk0088.md, after:

---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 07f0ddc40dbd0c4b8fe05f9d8224468505218d84
title: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis
---
# Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Maslow,A.H.(1943).A theory of humanmotivation. Psychological Review, 50,370-396. Miles, M. B., & Huberman, A. M. (1994). An expanded sourcebook: Qualitative data

analysis (2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Mor-Barak, M. E., & Cherin, D. A. (1998). A tool to expand organizational un- derstanding of workforce diversity: Exploring a measure of inclusion-exclusion. Administration in Social Work, 22, 47-64. doi:10.1300/J147v22n01_04.

Nembhard, I. M., & Edmondson, A. C. (2006). Making it safe: The effects of leader inclusiveness and professional status on psychological safety and improvement efforts in health care teams. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 27, 942-966. doi: 10.1002/job.413.

Nishii, L. H. (2013). The beneﬁts of climate for inclusion for gender-diverse groups. Academy of Management Journal, 56, 1754-1774. doi:10.5465/amj.2009.0823.
