# Shore and Chung

feedback to employees regarding how they should communicate or voice their opinions. Divergent views are often ignored while convergent views are more readily accepted. In suppressing their uniqueness, it is likely that employees who work under this type of leader would likely experience low psychological safety and low psychological empowerment.

Since the leader is essentially a representative of the organization, they are shaping the behaviors of their subordinates through their feedback, their signaling, their coaching, and their own exhibited behaviors. As they role model the assimilation mindset, employees, especially newcomers, will construct a schema for appropriate behavior in their work world based on conformity to the dominant culture. Such a leader is likely to use socialization tactics that emphasize these dominant organizational norms. Socialization agents in diverse work contexts are challenged by the pressure to navigate tensions between their organization’s expectations that they assimilate all members into the collective while recognizing the unique needs and per- spectives of those they socialize (Ramarajan & Reid, 2020). An assimilative leader may view the socialization they are providing as important for both the organization and for the employee with a marginalized social identity. Speciﬁcally, assimilation may be viewed as facilitating the employee’s per- formance and their career opportunities. With assimilation, there is high belongingness but only if uniqueness is not apparent in the work setting. As a result, employees cannot bring many aspects of themselves and their culture into the work world. In a study by Dawson (2006), a study participant called this “putting on the uniform” where they had to conform to organizational norms during the workday and take the uniform off when they went home. Unfortunately, there is a danger in hiding a core identity for the individual, including greater stress and a slower reduction of cortisol reactivity (Albuja, Gaither, Sanchez, Straka, & Cipollina, 2019). For the organization, employees who do not identify with the dominant culture but comply with the organ- ization’s norms may ultimately affect organizational productivity through increased turnover (Hewlin, 2009). The leader who emphasizes assimilation may contribute to the loss of outstanding employees who are pressured to behave in ways that deny a core identity. The outcomes for employees in terms of the assimilation-focused leader are that these employees ultimately end up with conﬂict stemming from undiscussable status issues and power im- balances. There is no open discussion of conﬂict or differences. For example, employees of color feel disrespected and devalued as members of minority groups.Employees also have low morale, alack of cross-cultural learning, and the inability of minority employees to bring all relevant skills and insights to bear at work (Ely & Thomas, 2001). Bicultural employees also report anxiety, compartmentalization, psychological conﬂict, and identity conﬂict (Bell,