---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8b2d671d674262245a932d5ccee6fcba45c5cac1
title: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion
---
# Shore and Chung

While in-group membership is advantageous in many ways, it also can require a level of compliance to group norms that reduces the fulﬁllment of human needs for uniqueness (Hogg & Reid, 2006). Uniqueness refers to the need to maintain a distinctive and differentiated sense of self (Snyder & individuals deﬁne Fromkin, 1980). When this need becomes activated, themselves in terms of distinctive membership categories that are unique personal identiﬁcations(e.g., race/ethnicity,gender identiﬁcation, and age), by comparing themselves with others. A personal identiﬁcation within a group reﬂects deindividuation, the ways in which individuals are different within a social context (Brewer, 1991). When these or other personal identiﬁcations are perceived to be devalued, then experiences of inclusion are diminished. Shore et al. (2011) presented a 2 × 2 inclusion framework in which be- longingness and value in uniqueness combine to create different employee experiences in the work group. Inclusion consists of high belongingness and high value in uniqueness. When employees feel included, they can retain their individuality in the group while also being treated as an insider (Jans, Postmes & Van der Zee, 2012). Assimilation (high belongingness and low value in uniqueness) occurs when the employee is regarded as an insider in the work group when they ﬁt into organizational behavioral norms by minimizing the display of ways in which they are unique (Bell, 1990; Lee & Kye, 2016; McCluney & Rabelob, 2019). Differentiation (low belongingness and high value in uniqueness) occurs when the employee is not treated as an insider in the work group, but their unique characteristics are viewed as important and necessary for the group and/or organization’s success. For example, executive and management arguments justifying selection or promotion of minority employees for the business case for diversity (Robinson & Dechant, 1997) may contribute to these employees experiencing differentiation rather than inclusion. Afﬁrmative action and hiring quotas may also lead to employee experiences of differentiation since these practices have been shown to stigmatize recipients with assumptions of lower competence (Heilman, Block, & Lucas, 1992). Exclusion (low belongingness and low value in uniqueness) ensues when the employee is not considered an organizational insider with unique value in the work group, but there are other employees or groups who are insiders (Mor Barak, 2015; Wang & Li, 2018). Such exclusion can come in a number of different forms, for example, through microaggressions (Sue, Capodilupo et al., 2007), ostracism (Robinson & Schabram, 2017), and re- jection (Wesselmann & Williams, 2017).

A signiﬁcant topic that has not received adequate research attention is how the leader of the work group contributes to each of the quadrants described in the Shore et al. (2011) model. Prior research on leader inclusion primarily focuses on the leader treatment of team members generally (Carmeli, Reiter-
