data/clean/inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis__chunk0007.md, before:

# Roberson and Perry

leadership that establishes norms of active consultation and participation to drive shared decision-making within a team or organization (Nembhard & Edmondson, 2006). Distinguished from participative leadership, inclusive approaches refer to situations in which members’ statuses vary according to the degree to which they are considered insiders and behaviors for including the perspectives and opinions of those who might otherwise be ignored (Edmondson, 1996, 2003). Accordingly, high-quality relationships between leaders and their followers signal norms of equality and power sharing and subsequently inclusiveness (Hollander, 2009; Nishii & Mayer, 2009). Deriving from the concept of inclusion, researchers also view inclusive leadership as behaviors to create the psychological experience of feeling a sense of uniqueness and belonging within a team or organization (Randel et al., 2018). For example, behaviors to encourage employee differences in perspectives and approaches and fully incorporate them into the group’s work are posited to facilitate feelings of uniqueness while those to treat all employees fairly, support their ideas, and share decision-making are con- sidered to facilitate perceptions of belongingness. Still, as few studies have explored the demonstration of inclusive leadership, our understanding of what leaders do in an attempt to create inclusive environments is limited. This study explores the concept and enactment of inclusive leadership from a leader perspective. Through manual and assisted thematic analyses of leaders’ written responses to questions regarding how they perceive and demonstrate inclusive leadership, we investigate how leaders do sensemaking about what it means to be inclusive. Consistent with early work in this area (see Edmondson, 2003), this qualitative design allowed us to diverge from researchers’ conceptions of inclusive leadership and examine the phenom- enon from leaders’ unguided perspectives. In addition, it enabled us to explore the richness of people’s natural language accounts of how they enact inclusive leadership and to detect themes, patterns, and nuances that might not be revealed through other methodologies. Accordingly, this study provides in- sight into how leaders view and interpret their experiences with being in- clusive or their relative sensitivity to various facets of those experiences. These design features also enable our aims of advancing our theoretical understanding of the concept of inclusive leadership.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis__chunk0007.md, after:

---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: dc84de2acae5218141f4743522dab0085ccc6c85
title: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis
---
## Inclusive Leadership in Thought and Action: A Thematic Analysis

With workforces characterized by countless differences, leaders have been increasingly challenged to not only lead across such differences but to ﬁnd ways for valuing and leveraging them for organizational functioning. To this end, organizations have explored programs and initiatives for the last 20 years that emphasize the removal of barriers that block employees from using the full range of their skills and experiences (see Harvey, 1999). While initially considered to be interventions for accepting diverse employees—particularly, women and underrepresented minorities—into interaction networks and upper echelons of organizations (Ibarra, 1993), such efforts have evolved into more expansive change efforts to embed a value for diversity in all forms into the culture of organizations. Organizations have come to focus on the con- ﬁguration of its structures and systems to value and leverage the potential of differences in the workforce, including the removal of obstacles to the full participation and contribution of all employees (Roberson, 2006).

Early research on inclusive approaches to diversity management drew attention to diversity within organizations and the degree to which it is in- tegrated into organizational strategies, structures, and process as hallmarks (Cox, 1991; Thomas & Ely, 1996). Although not referred to using the term “inclusion,” researchers distinguished between initiatives to simply increase workforce diversity versus those that represented a more material change in organizations. More recent research has attempted to identify human resource practices and programs for facilitating climates for inclusion or the en- gagement of employees’ whole selves and learning from diverse perspectives (Nishii, 2013; Roberson, 2006). Still, other research suggests that inclusive environments are dynamic systems not only prescribed by the values, policies, and practices of an organization but enacted by people at all levels (Ferdman & Davidson, 2002). As such, leaders are considered to be essential to the creation of such environments given their direct inﬂuence on employee experiences within organizations (Ferdman, 2014).

Research has given attention to the concept of inclusive leadership. Some researchers view inclusive leadership as a particular form of relational
