---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 531350a684e2e5446f5bf34ecd412aee4b301c09
title: inclusive_leadership_in_thought_and_action_a_thematic_analysis
---
## Limitations and Future Research Directions

As with any study, there are limitations that should be acknowledged. Given our sample, we should be cautious in presuming the generalizability of the research ﬁndings. Speciﬁcally, with a relatively small sample, we may have detected more variability in our results, thus reducing the reliability of ﬁndings. While themes emerged within the data, a larger sample may reduce the magnitude of speciﬁc themes or be useful for detecting superordinate categories related to inclusive leadership. Our ability to draw conclusions about universal approaches to inclusive leadership would be further strengthened by data collection outside of the sampling organization as multiple source data would allow us to rule out the likelihood that themes identiﬁed in this study are speciﬁc to our research site. Therefore, future research is needed to assess inclusive leadership and its demonstration across a variety of contexts ranging in size, industry, mission and strategy, and culture. Further, while we did not capture leader individual differences in order to maintain a level of anonymity, data from a larger and diverse group of leaders may help to offer additional insight into antecedents of inclusive leadership and enhance the reproducibility of our ﬁndings.

There are also disadvantages to our methodology as our results are con- strained by the reliability and validity of the questions posed to respondents. While our approach allowed them to describe in their own words the meaning and enactment of inclusive leadership, their responses may have been inﬂuenced by our phrasing. Speciﬁcally, by asking about the demonstration of inclusive leadership, respondents may have focused on strategies for pre- senting as inclusive leaders or on an ideal set of behaviors rather than on actual behaviors. Accordingly, future research using interview data from leaders or matched data from employees may offer additional insight into what leaders can actually do to create and maintain inclusive environments. Further, re- search to assess leader behaviors for reducing employee exclusion and
