data/clean/inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion__chunk0043.md, before:

# Shore and Chung

social exclusion. Hales, Ren, and Williams (2016) suggested that there are three purposes of ostracism that might apply to leader exclusion. First, to protect groups from problematic members. Second, to reveal to individuals that their behavior needs modiﬁcation to remain in the group. Third, to remove deviant individuals who resist correction. Nezlek, Wesselmann, Wheeler, and Williams (2012) also found that ostracizers were motivated by self-protection. Rejection is likely to be similar to ostracism in terms of motivation of the perpetrator. However, microaggressions are more speciﬁcally associated with marginalized social identities. While likewise forms of social exclusion by the leader, the bias associated with them is also prone to reﬂect the attitudes of the leader toward the particular social group the individual belongs to.

Leader exclusion can have harmful effects at multiple levels and can cause particularly damaging experiences to group members (Fiset, Hajj, & Vongas, 2017). The leader may justify an exclusionary orientation for the good of the group as a whole or in the case of microaggressions, may not even recognize that their actions are harmful to an employee with a marginalized social identity. For the employee, a core issue is the perceived threat to their sense of belonging in the work group (Robinson & Schabram, 2017). Exclusion impedes the opportunity to buildthe social relationships in the workgroup that can lead to belongingness. Since the leader is in a position of power in the group, this may be especially likely. The experience of belongingness means that the employee is part of the in-group and likely receiving beneﬁts from their status. In contrast, leader exclusion can lead to expectations by the recipient that they are in the out-group and unlikely to be treated as well as others in the work group. The leader who engages in exclusion may assume that the employee will learn a valuable lesson and carefully manage their behavior to comply with work group or organizational norms in the future. But in light of the evidence linking exclusion to many negative outcomes for the target and for the organization (Howard et al., 2020), such a leader orientation may well have more negative than positive effects.

The exclusive leader also risks alienating other employees who observe the exclusion. If the employee is dissimilar to the leader and/or the work group, other employees who observe the exclusion are more likely to attribute the exclusion to malicious motives of the leader, such as in-group favoritism, and devalue the leader (Rudert, Sutter, Corrodi, & Greifeneder, 2018). Leader exclusion may thus decrease the support of other group members for their leader if those members make the moral judgment that the treatment was unfair. This is especially likely if the target employee is a minority group member working in a predominantly white group. This raises questions as to whether the diversity of the work context is related to members of minority groups experiencing more exclusion than whites. Recent research from a cross

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion__chunk0043.md, after:

---
source_path: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 68e9a39cba4fb1e72c6788fbfce4fb994f98aec9
title: inclusive_leadership_how_leaders_sustain_or_discourage_work_group_inclusion
---
# Group & Organization Management 0(0)

and microinvalidation. Microassaults are deﬁned as explicit racial derogations that can be verbal (e.g., racial jokes), nonverbal (e.g., discriminatory be- havior), or environmental (e.g., offensive posters). These are attacks meant to hurt the recipient. It is generally intentional and conscious. The two other forms of microaggression described (microinsults and microinvalidations), however, tend to operate unconsciously and are unintended. A microinsult is an act or comment by the leader that conveys rudeness, insensitivity, or degrades a person’s racial identity or heritage (e.g., saying to a black employee that another person was chosen for promotion due to a better “culture ﬁt”). Microinvalidations are actions that exclude or nullify the views, experiences, or reality of a person of color (e.g., when an Asian American is asked what country they come from).

Microaggressions can be focused on various social identities, though most of the research has focused on race (Nair, Good, & Murrell, 2019). Even if the microaggression is not intended to do harm, the recipient may indeed interpret the treatment as disrespectful and implying that they are of lower status and less importance than members of nonmarginalized social identity groups. Evidence is building that microaggressions are associated with both mental and physical harm to the recipient (Williams, 2020).

Ostracism. Workplace ostracism is deﬁned as “when an individual or group omits to take actions that engage another organizational member when it is socially appropriate to do so” (Robinson, et al., 2013, p. 206). Examples of ostracism include employees receiving unanswered greetings from the leader, not being included on email threads, being treated as if they are not present, having ideas ignored, getting passed over for an opportunity, having the leader refuse to talk to them, or if the leader exits the area when they enter (Ferris, Brown, Berry, & Lian, 2008). Wesselmann and Williams (2017) provided additional examples of ostracism such as not being given eye contact (B¨ockler, H¨omke, & Sebanz, 2014; Wesselmann, Cardoso, Slater, & Williams, 2012; Wirth, Sacco, Hugenberg, & Williams, 2010), being forgotten (King & Geise, 2011), or experiencing uncomfortable silences (Koudenburg, Postmes, & Gordijn, 2011).

While ostracism is an effective social inﬂuence tool, it often leads to harmful consequences for individuals who are the recipients (Ferris et al., 2008; Robinson et al., 2013). In a meta-analysis by Howard, Cogswell, and Smith (2020), they concluded that ostracism was negatively related to core performance, helping, and voice, positively related to turnover and turnover intentions, and negatively related to well-being, satisfaction, and justice perceptions.

In light of the harmful effects of rejection, microaggressions, and ostra- cism, it is difﬁcult to understand why leaders would engage in these types of
