---
source_path: individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8ab32355851e5d8a3dc701dcbc9a4e1e0e39c660
title: individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st
---
# various

which are often based on qualitative ap- proaches. One of the strengths of competency models is that they are often linked to the business goals and strategies of the organiza- tion. Additionally, competency models provide insight into core competencies that are com- mon to multiple jobs within an organization. The United States Office of Personnel Management (OPM) has attempted to capi- talize on the strengths of both traditional job analysis techniques and competency model development in its work. In 1990, OPM be- gan developing competency models, recogniz- ing the potential for the application of competency-based human resource applica- tions in the federal government. OPM sought to incorporate traditional job analysis meth- odology into the development of competency models to provide an empirical foundation for the use of competencies by employees, man- agers, and human resource (HR) profession- als in the public sector. To ensure competency models could be used by all HR functions, they were based on job analyses that met the stan- dards set forth by the Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures (Equal Em- ployment Opportunity Commission, 1978) and other legal and professional standards.

Before developing competency models, it is important to establish a definition of com- petency. OPM defines a competency as a mea- surable pattern of knowledge, skill, abilities, behaviors, and other characteristics that an in- dividual needs to perform work roles or occu- pational functions successfully. This broad definition of competencies forms the basis for “whole-person assessment.” Competencies such as interpersonal skills and teamwork can be as important as traditional knowledge, skills, and abilities (i.e., KSAs), but have not typically been assessed by the federal govern- ment. Research has indicated that these “softer skills” may have a significant impact on ultimate work success (Boyatzis, 1982). In conducting its competency research, OPM tried to capture both traditional KSAs, such as written communication, and softer skills, such as interpersonal skills, teamwork, and flexibility. OPM compared its competency framework to those successfully used in the private sector and those found in the litera- ture to ensure a balanced framework. For ex-
