---
source_path: individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: dfaf2284463c97f253a2d00a5f8bb1c4d00d215a
title: individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st
---
## Competencies and the Organizational Mission

The role of HR professionals has expanded to include new responsibilities as a strategic part- ner to management and change agent (Ulrich, 1997). Competencies support these new roles since they can be linked to and promote the strategic mission and values of an organiza- tion. The linkage of occupation-related com- petencies and activities to the organizational mission and goals provides a clear line of sight between individual and team performance and organizational success. The organization can reward the accomplishments directly related to the agency’s mission and reward those com- petencies that drive organizational success. By aligning the strategic plan with competencies, an organization can effectively derive recruit- ment, selection, and training strategies that will support projected future needs, resulting in high-performing employees and a high- performance organization.

To ensure the continual linkage of workforce competencies to an organization’s strategic mission and the adaptation of com- petencies to the changing business environ- ment, an organization can conduct periodic competency audits using its performance man- agement results. Aggregating individuals’ strengths and weaknesses on mission-critical competencies will allow the organization to assess the strategic objectives that can be achieved with its existing workforce. The skills gap analysis at the organizational level pro- vides key information for workforce planning strategies. The competency audit will allow the organization to determine how to leverage its resources most effectively with regard to the strategic mission. The audit provides a focused approach for relocating employees within the organization and providing training and de- velopment where they can serve the best or- ganizational purpose.

The strategic use of competencies can also promote the desired culture of an organization. For example, the U.S. Mint has established an executive contract (i.e., a performance contract) that ties these concepts together. Instead of focusing only on results, the Mint also focuses on competencies used to achieve the results. By identifying competencies or groups of com- petencies that are critical to the organization and placing them in a performance contract, an organization is communicating the way that business should be conducted. Performance contracts can result in decreases in grievances, absenteeism, and sabotage.

Changes in federal policy and HR prac- tices have been facilitated by competency data. In the early 1990s, the primary mission of ES was to recruit and retain a high-quality fed- eral workforce. Competency models provided the data to promote this mission, by identify- ing the critical competencies for different oc- cupations to establish the criteria for selection tests. Currently, with a tight labor market, it important for the federal government to in- crease the flexibility of its hiring system. ES is using the results of the occupational analyses to pilot test a competency-based approach to establish qualifications for jobs, resulting in a dramatic change in the way the federal gov- ernment can hire. These applications demon- strate the broad implications of the use of competencies to support HR initiatives.
