---
source_path: individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f7a0f1c52871fffc450d75a359eab85421b83296
title: individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st
---
# Occupational Analysis Methodology

Over the last decade, OPM conducted fed- eral governmental job analyses studies (i.e., occupational analyses) of three occupational groups. First, the Leadership Effectiveness Study examined executive, managerial, and supervisory positions (Corts & Gowing, 1992; Gregory & Park, 1992). The second study ex- amined seventy-seven clerical and technical occupations (Rodriguez, Usala, & Shoun, 1996), and the third study examined 119 pro- fessional and administrative occupations (Pol- lack, Simons, & Patel, 1999). Three additional studies are currently in progress to complete the initial studies of the world of work in the federal government: (1) one hundred Trades and Labor occupations (Bright, 2002), (2) four Information Technology occupations with ten

sub-specialty titles (Ricci & Savage, 2001), and (3) forty-six Science & Engineering occupa- tions (Caldwell, 2002). Together, these occu- pational analyses will cover the major occu- pations common to organizations in the fed- eral government.

Each of OPM’s occupational studies is con- ducted using the Multipurpose Occupational Systems Analysis Inventory–Closed-ended (MOSAIC) approach. MOSAIC is a multipur- pose, survey-based job analysis used to collect information on many occupations within an oc- cupational group (e.g., information technology, clerical and technical) for a wide range of HR functions. The foundation of the MOSAIC approach is the development of a common lan- guage for competencies and generalized tasks that can be used to describe all occupations included within an occupational study group. This approach has several advantages (see Table I on next page) over traditional occupational analyses in which different HR branches would independently survey the same job incumbents and gather similar data. For example, within an organization, one HR function would col- lect information to build selection procedures while another function would collect informa- tion on training needs. Such an approach re- sulted in redundancy in effort and cost, as well as over-surveying of incumbents. Similarly, across the federal government, HR departments from different agencies would also duplicate data collection efforts. With the development of a single job competency model costing up to $150,000, the costs of these individual studies add up quickly. The MOSAIC methodology eliminates the need to develop different sur- veys for different jobs. It also allows a one-time collection of data for all HR purposes, paving the way to a truly integrated approach to HR. The savings from the systematic MO- SAIC approach are significant. For example, the clerical and technical occupational study examined seventy-seven occupations for about the cost of ten individual studies, sav- ing the federal government approximately $130,000 per occupation for a total savings of over ten million dollars. Other associated costs are also reduced. For example, a single study for multiple purposes reduces the print- ing and survey administration costs of mul- tiple studies.

The common language reduces the costs of developing independent, and often redundant, models within the federal government.
