data/clean/individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st__chunk0059.md, before:

# Developing Competency Models to Promote Integrated Human Resource Practices • 321

formance review process. These competency ratings are combined with ratings on the achievement of results to provide a complete picture of an individual’s performance.

Competency models of individual occu- pations also form the foundation for training and development activities. For example, the Forest Service (FS) is deploying a competency-based training information sys- tem using competencies from the HR Man- ager as the basis for needs assessment. This system will search course information and identify courses that provide training on the competencies selected as critical for the job. Employees and supervisors provide ratings on competencies to identify which competencies are most critical in an employee’s development during a given time period. The system will also feature an on-line catalog, approval of all non-FS courses, and track the training his- tory of individuals. Within the state of Colo- rado, several departments have begun to use occupational profiles as a foundation for their career models. The Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) has used critical com- petencies to develop a competency-based en- gineering succession and development planning model by tying engineering exami- nations and training to the competencies. The Colorado Department of Human Services is also using a competency-based approach to succession planning. It is using a “Competency Assessment Form” to rate the current impor- tance and future importance of various com- petencies for its managers and supervisors, and to assess their current preparedness and fu- ture preparedness to meet these needs. This subset of applications represents how empiri- cally based competency models for individual occupations provide the foundation for sup- porting HR applications.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st__chunk0059.md, after:

---
source_path: individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: bb03ca135c8ef66fd47fab2e150218a470be533e
title: individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st
---
## 320 • HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT, Fall 2002

They can be applied in the selection process through a variety of candidate assessment techniques (e.g., structured interviews, on-line tests, work sample assessments). This gives agency officials new options for fast and flex- ible hiring. As agencies have downsized, the importance of high-quality selections has in- creased and the criteria used to make these selections have become more critical for de- veloping a high-performance workforce.

Competency benchmarks from HR Manager were used to develop vacancy announcements and to develop scoring mechanisms (e.g., crediting plans, rating guides for structured interviews) for evaluating the candidates.

The two pilot projects testing the revised standards will be evaluated by participating agencies before being instituted throughout the government. In the Accountant Pilot, the Chief Financial Officers Council of the Fed- eral Government, OPM, and a group of eight agencies contributed to the development of a competency-based job profile for accountant positions. This job profile was based on the empirical data gathered in the occupational study. Focus groups were conducted to fur- ther define the technical competencies (e.g., economics and accounting), taking them to a lower level (e.g., budgeting concepts and prin- ciples) than those found in the study of pro- fessional and administrative occupations. The pilot on IT occupations includes the develop- ment of new specialty titles to replace the gen- eral computer specialist title. OPM used the new SOC as its foundation for developing new IT titles and definitions of the work associ- ated with these titles, while simultaneously working to revise the minimum qualification requirements for IT occupations using the data from the occupational studies. These competency-based requirements will be aligned with the new title structure. A new occupational survey is being sent to identify the critical tasks and competencies for each of the specialty titles. Results will be used to verify the new classification structure and qualifications profile.

OPM provides agencies participating in the pilots of the competency-based job pro- files with recruitment and selection strate- gies and tools. These tools include new candidate assessment instruments, special recruiting material, a training program to in- sure correct and consistent application of the profile, and an outreach program to educate managers. Competency benchmarks from HR Manager were used to develop vacancy an-

nouncements and to develop scoring mecha- nisms (e.g., crediting plans, rating guides for structured interviews) for evaluating the can- didates. Benchmarks and interview questions from HR Manager were used to develop a modular-format structured interview that could be administered on-line. Finally, a Web-based computer adaptive assessment sys- tem was provided to pilot agencies so that they could have access to over one hundred IT technical assessments.

The results of this work led to a system that focuses on an optimal competency pro- file for a job, not the minimum qualifications for a job. OPM plans to continue development of the competency-based qualification stan- dards for other federal occupations.

Competencies and HR functions. Finally, com- petency models for individual occupations provide the basis for daily HR activities. Many agencies are using competencies as the foun- dation for recruitment and selection. For ex- ample, recruitment or job advertisements at many agencies now include competencies. Additionally, the advertisements may ask ap- plicants to specifically address the competen- cies or to answer competency-based questions. The U.S. Mint has used this approach suc- cessfully and has found that the quality of applicants has improved, with the added ben- efit of some unqualified candidates self-selecting out of the applicant pool. The questions can also be used in structured in- terviews of qualified candidates. Rating crite- ria can be developed using the competency benchmarks or levels.

Within the Employment Service (ES) of the OPM, a pilot competency-based perform- ance evaluation system has been established using competency benchmarks as the foun- dation for the system. This system was de- signed for all jobs within the ES using the competency data collected in the occupa- tional studies. Competencies were selected as critical elements in the performance man- agement system, based on information col- lected on importance and distinguishing value (i.e., which competencies were rated the highest for distinguishing superior per- formers). Competency benchmarks were used to anchor the rating scale for the per-
