---
source_path: individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5286a1ec11cd024696c4a6947a5840cb1b284b12
title: individual_selection_development_and_performance_management_to_organizational_st
---
# Selection of Rating Scales

Scales for rating of competencies and tasks are evaluated for inclusion on the survey. Scales are selected to ensure that information from the survey is applicable for different HR functions and meets professional and legal requirements (Ricci, 2001). Since the surveys are lengthy, the scales are divided between job incumbents and supervisors. For example, in the clerical study, job incumbents were asked to rate how much time they spent on tasks. On their form, supervisors were asked to rate the importance of the tasks, because supervi- sors are expected to have the best understand- ing of tasks that are important for occupational success. A typical survey includes competency rating scales for importance (used for mul- tiple HR purposes), required at entry (used for recruitment and selection), distinguishing value (used for selection and performance management), and need for training (used for career development). Task scales for impor- tance and frequency or time spent (used for multiple HR purposes) are also included. See Table II for examples of these scales from the Professional and Administrative study.

tencies needed to perform them. The final- ized task and competency statements are re- viewed by a panel of research psychologists to determine the importance of each competency for successfully performing each task. Previ- ous work (O’Leary, Rheinstein, & McCauley, 1989) has shown that ratings of psychologists are similar to those made by job incumbents. The linkage is the final step in finalizing the competencies and tasks for the occupational survey. This step ensures that the lists are comprehensive for the jobs. For example, when a competency does not link to any tasks, it indicates that either tasks are missing or the competency should not have been in- cluded. Task-to-competency linkages are also critical because (1) they are recommended by the Uniform Guidelines on Employee Se- lection Procedures (Equal Employment Op- portunity Commission, 1978), and (2) the linkage information provides the foundation for developing a broad array of HR products (e.g., training objectives and curricula, per- formance standards, career development plans, recruitment and selection procedures).
