# Developing Competency Models to Promote Integrated Human Resource Practices • 321

formance review process. These competency ratings are combined with ratings on the achievement of results to provide a complete picture of an individual’s performance.

Competency models of individual occu- pations also form the foundation for training and development activities. For example, the Forest Service (FS) is deploying a competency-based training information sys- tem using competencies from the HR Man- ager as the basis for needs assessment. This system will search course information and identify courses that provide training on the competencies selected as critical for the job. Employees and supervisors provide ratings on competencies to identify which competencies are most critical in an employee’s development during a given time period. The system will also feature an on-line catalog, approval of all non-FS courses, and track the training his- tory of individuals. Within the state of Colo- rado, several departments have begun to use occupational profiles as a foundation for their career models. The Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) has used critical com- petencies to develop a competency-based en- gineering succession and development planning model by tying engineering exami- nations and training to the competencies. The Colorado Department of Human Services is also using a competency-based approach to succession planning. It is using a “Competency Assessment Form” to rate the current impor- tance and future importance of various com- petencies for its managers and supervisors, and to assess their current preparedness and fu- ture preparedness to meet these needs. This subset of applications represents how empiri- cally based competency models for individual occupations provide the foundation for sup- porting HR applications.