---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 51cd60c5ab52d35708f482c27409a7f6ecca2d1c
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# Walk-ins

10

5

1

1

131

132

chapter 

But looking only at the number of applicants does not take into account the cost of the recruitment campaign. Thus, a second method for evaluating the success of a recruitment campaign is to consider the cost per applicant, which is determined by dividing the number of applicants by the amount spent for each strategy. Continu- ing with the previous example, suppose our newspaper ad cost $ and yielded  applicants and our in-store sign cost $ and yielded  applicants. The cost per applicant for the newspaper ad would be $, whereas the cost per applicant for the in-store sign would be just $.. Using this method of evaluation, the in-store sign would be best as long as it generated the number of applicants needed by the orga- nization. But if the organization needs to hire  new employees and there are only  applicants for jobs, this recruitment strategy by itself is not effective.

Although the cost-per-applicant evaluation method is an improvement on the applicant-yield method, it too has a serious drawback. An organization might receive a large number of applicants at a relatively low cost per applicant, but none may be qualified for the job. Therefore, the third and fourth strategies would be to look at either the number of qualified applicants or the cost per qualified applicant.

Another method for evaluating the effectiveness of various recruitment sources, and perhaps the best one, looks at the number of successful employees generated by each recruitment source. This is an effective method because, as shown in Figure ., every applicant will not be qualified, nor will every qualified applicant become a successful employee.

A final method for evaluating recruitment source effectiveness is to look at the number of minorities and women that applied for the job and were hired. Though there has not been much research on this topic, Kirnan, Farley, and Geisinger () found that women and African Americans were more likely to use formal sources of recruitment (e.g., newspaper ads, job fairs) than were men and nonminorities.

To determine differences in recruitment-source effectiveness, a meta- analysis conducted by Zottoli and Wanous () first categorized recruitment methods as being from either an inside source (employee referrals, rehires) or an outside source (advertisements, employment agencies, school placement offices, recruit- ers). They found that employees recruited through inside sources stayed with the organization longer (higher tenure) and performed better than employees recruited through outside sources. Several theories might explain the superiority of inside sources.

The first theory suggests that rehires or applicants who are referred by other employees receive more accurate information about the job than do employees recruited by other methods (Wanous, ). This theory has been supported in research by McManus and Baratta (), Conard and Ashworth (), and Breaugh and Mann (), who found that applicants referred by current employees received not only more information but also more accurate informa- tion about the job than did applicants recruited through other channels.

The second theory postulates that differences in recruitment-source effec- tiveness are the result of different recruitment sources reaching and being used by different types of applicants (Schwab, ). Although some research has supported this t heory of individual differences (Breaugh & Mann, ; Swaroff, Barclay, & Bass, ; Taylor & Schmidt, ), other research has not (Breaugh, ). In fact, no variables have consistently distinguished users of one recruitment method from users of another method. Furthermore, the typical person looking for a job uses a wide variety of job search strategies. To underscore this point, think of the part-time

jobs you have held. How did you find out about each one? Was it the same method each time? As you can see, it is unlikely that a certain type of person responds only to newspaper ads, while another type goes only to employment agencies.

A third theory might better explain the finding that employee referrals result in greater tenure than do other recruitment strategies. This theory, cited earlier in the discussion on employee referral programs, has its roots in the literature on interpersonal attraction, which indicates that people tend to be attracted to those who are similar to themselves (Baron & Byrne, ). If true—and research strongly suggests it is—then an employee recommending a friend for a job will more than likely recommend one similar to herself. Thus, it would make sense that a person who is happy with her job would recommend a person who, because of her similarity to the incumbent, should also be happy with the job. Likewise, an unhappy employee would recommend similar friends who would also be unhappy and would probably have short tenure with the organization.

This theory has not been heavily researched, but it has been supported by two studies. As discussed earlier, both Aamodt and Carr () and Rupert () found that long-tenured employees referred applicants who, after being hired, stayed on their jobs longer than applicants who were referred by short-tenured employees. No significant differences were found when job performance was examined instead of tenure.
