## Establishing the Usefulness of a Selection Device

Even when a test is both reliable and valid, it is not necessarily useful. At first, this may not make much sense, but consider a test that has been shown to be valid for selecting employees for a fast-food restaurant chain. Suppose there are  job openings and  job seekers apply for those openings. Even though the test is valid, it will have no impact because the restaurant chain must hire every applicant.

As another example, imagine an organization that already has a test that does a good job of predicting performance. Even though a new test being considered may be valid, the old test may have worked so well that the current employees are all successful. Or the organization may have such a good training program that current employees are all successful. Thus, a new test (even though it is valid) may not provide any improvement.

To determine how useful a test would be in any given situation, several formulas and tables have been designed. Each formula and table provides slightly different information to an employer. The Taylor-Russell tables provide an estimate of the percentage of total new hires who will be successful employees if a test is adopted (organizational success); both expectancy charts and the Lawshe tables provide a probability of success for a particular applicant based on test scores (individual success); and the utility formula provides an estimate of the amount of money an organization will save if it adopts a new testing procedure.