# Shift Work

Even though most people work from  a.m. or  a.m. to  p.m., approximately % of all employees work evening or late-night shifts due to economic and safety factors. Police officers and nurses must work around the clock because neither crime nor illness stops at  p.m.; retail employees must work late hours to accommodate people who are able to shop only late in the day; and factory workers work shifts because one plant can be three times as productive if it oper- ates round the clock.

Because shift work is necessary and affects approximately % of all employ- ees, research has attempted to identify its effects as well as ways to reduce any effects that might be negative. As Table . shows, research clearly indicates that working evening (“swing”) and late-night/overnight (“graveyard”) shifts has many physical, mental, and work-related negative effects.

These negative effects are thought to occur because of disruptions in circadian rhythms, the -hour cycles of physiological functions maintained by every person. For example, most people sleep at night and eat in the morning, at noon, and in the evening. Although there are individual differences in the exact times for each function (such as eating or sleeping), people generally follow the same pattern. Working evening and late-night shifts disrupts this pattern and often causes digestive, appetite, and sleeping problems. Unfortunately, we don’t “get used to” shift work, and these effects get worse with continued exposure to night shifts (Kaliterna, Vidacek, Prizmic, & Radosevic-Vidacek, ). For exam- ple, Garbarino () found that Italian police working shifts had more sleep dis- orders than non–shift workers and that the greater the number of years spent working shifts, the worse the sleep disorders.

Many of the psychological and social effects of shift work are caused by the incompatibility of an employee’s schedule with the schedules of other people. That is, a person who works nights and sleeps mornings may be ready to socialize in the afternoon. Unfortunately, fewer people are around. And when the family is active, the employee is sleeping, and thus requires quiet.

As Figure . shows, many factors influence the degree to which shift work will affect an employee. For example, employees who live with families are affected more than employees who live alone because the former must adjust their sleeping schedules to those of others in the household (Smith & Folkard, ). Other important factors are uniqueness of shift, whether a shift is fixed or rotating, frequency of rotation, and individual differences.

Uniqueness of Shift The social effects of shift work can be greatly reduced if other organizations in the geographical area also use other shifts. The higher the percentage of organi- zations with shifts, the greater the number of stores and restaurants that are open during the evening and the greater the number of other people available with whom to socialize.