---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 10f3f6b237a2d6150a6ff13d8d69c39809691116
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
him. Before this order, the daughter may not have been especially interested in the boy, but after being told she cannot go on the date, she reacts by liking the boy more. An interesting example of psychological reactance comes from a study by Ruback and Juieng (), who observed drivers leaving their parking spots at a local mall. There were four conditions in the study. In the control condition, the researchers timed how long it took from the moment the driver opened her door to the moment she completely left the parking space when no other cars were present. In the distraction condition, they noted how much time was taken when a car drove past the parking space. In the low-intrusion condition, an experimenter pulled up next to the parking spot, indicating that she was waiting for the spot. In the high-intrusion condition, the waiting driver honked her horn. Consistent with psychological reactance, when a driver honked, it took . seconds for the parked driver to leave versus . seconds when there was no driver waiting for the spot (control) and . seconds when a car drove by (distraction). On a larger scale, such reactions are commonly seen in labor negotiations. Company managements and unions tend to disagree with and criticize one another. But often such criticism backfires because attacking another group may serve to strengthen that group. In fact, if a company or group wants to increase the cohesiveness of its membership, it can artificially create pressure and attri- bute it to another group. This tactic involves building a straw man—an opponent who does not actually exist but to whom negative statements about the group can be attributed. Group Size Groups are most cohesive and perform best when group size is small. Studies have shown that large groups have lower productivity (Mullen, Johnson, & Drake, ), less coordination, and lower morale (Frank & Anderson, ) and are less active (Indik, ), less cohesive (Carron, ), and more critical (Valacich, Dennis, & Nunamaker, ) than smaller groups. In fact, research suggests that groups perform best (Kaplan, ; Manners, ) and have greatest member satisfac- tion (Hackman & Vidmar, ) when they consist of approximately five members. Thus, a large organization probably works best when it is divided into smaller groups and committees and when work groups contain approximately five people. group behavior, teams, and conflict 481 482 chapter  This does not mean, however, that small groups are always best. Although small groups usually increase cohesiveness, high performance is seen with only certain types of tasks. Additive tasks are those for which the group’s performance is equal to the sum of the performances by each group member. Examples of groups performing additive tasks include bowling teams and typing pools. In groups work- ing on additive tasks, each member’s contribution is important, and larger groups will probably be better than smaller groups. Conjunctive tasks are those for which the group’s performance depends on the least effective group member (a chain is only as strong as its weakest link). Examples of conjunctive tasks include an assem- bly line and friends going hiking (you can walk only as fast as the slowest hiker). Because success on a conjunctive task is limited by the least effective member, smaller groups are usually best. Disjunctive tasks are those for which the group’s performance is based on the most talented group member. Examples of disjunctive tasks include problem solving, brainstorming, and a captain’s choice golf tourna- ment (each person plays the best shot of the four golfers). As with additive tasks, larger groups are probably better at disjunctive tasks than are smaller groups. The addition of more members has its greatest effect when the group is small. Latane () first investigated this idea when he formulated social impact theory. Imagine that a four-person committee is studying safety problems at work. If the group is stable and cohesive, adding a fifth person may be disrup- tive. But in a factory of , employees, hiring one new employee is not likely to change the complexion of the company. That is why sports experts have observed that a single great player can turn around a poor basketball team—as occurred with Bill Walton and the Portland Trailblazers, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and the Milwaukee Bucks, Jason Kidd and the New Jersey Nets, and Steve Nash and the Phoenix Suns—but not a football or baseball team. Not surprisingly, research indicates that groups working through a computer behave differently from groups working face to face. When computers are used, large groups appear to perform best and have the most satisfied members (Dennis, Valacich, & Nunamaker, ; Valacich, Dennis, & Connolly, ; Valacich et al., ). Interestingly, when groups work via a computer, members whose opinion is in the minority are more likely to express opinions than when the group meets face to face. However, these same minority members are more persuasive when the group meets face to face (McLeod, Baron, Marti, & Yoon, ). Group Status The higher the group’s status, the greater its cohesiveness. This is an important point: A group can be made more cohesive by increasing group status. The group does not actually have to have high status, but it is important that its members believe they have high status. Again, look around campus and notice the methods used by various groups to artificially increase their status. On our campus, one fraternity advertises itself as the “Porsche of fraternities,” another claims to be the “fraternity of distinction.” Of course, there is little difference between the actual status and performance of most organizations, so effective leaders try to increase the cohesiveness of group members by claiming high status—and apparently it works. One way leaders can increase their group’s status is by increasing the per- ception that the group is difficult to join but that, once in, members will find that the group’s activities are special. In most high schools, “two-a-day” practices are typical during the week before football practice begins. During this period, each prospective team member is worked close to exhaustion. Coaches have such “hell weeks” to increase the team’s status and thus its cohesion and performance. Obviously, a player cannot get into shape in a week, so the purpose of two-a-day practices is not conditioning—it is to build the status of the group members who survive the week. A similar approach is taken by the Marine Corps. By its tough basic training, the Corps builds the status of its enlistees so that Marines and non-Marines alike will believe that the Corps consists of just a “few good men.” Fraternities and sororities are also notorious for hazing during their pledge weeks. Aside from the illegality and cruelty of this behavior, hazing serves the pur- pose of increasing the effort required for a potential member to join, thus increas- ing the group’s cohesiveness and status. Football players, Marines, and fraternity or sorority members are not likely to quit a group that they have worked so hard to join.
