---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a6f14944e6765b37089c14254f8fc3c34f60563f
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
men were so in need of contact and communication with others that they scraped their cell walls to make noise and establish contact and informal communication with one another. This behavior is similar to that reported by hostages held in Beirut and Syria. If people are not allowed the opportunity for affiliation, they make attempts to secure at least minimal contact. When even minimal contact is not possible, morale and perhaps even the will to live are lessened. Such is the concern about the new supermaximum prisons being built for inmates who behave violently while incarcerated. In these prisons, inmates spend  hours a day alone in con- crete stalls without air conditioning. There are no books, magazines, or televi- sion and only minimal contact with guards. During the remaining hour each day, inmates are placed alone in an -by -foot cage where they can pace or toss a basketball at an iron hoop. As one might imagine, prisoners’ rights advocates are concerned about the long-term effects of such isolation. Similar concerns were expressed after several suspected al-Qaeda terrorists housed in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, attempted suicide in February . Of course, people are not equal in their desire or need to affiliate with others (Ray & Hall, ). For example, computer programmers have lower needs and desires to affiliate than do people in many other occupations (Shneiderman, ). This point is especially interesting because it is common in the information tech- nology field to place programmers and analysts in groups to debug programs and solve problems (Shneiderman, ). Although research is not yet available on the effects of such groupings, putting such strong individualists into groups does not sound like a promising idea. However, people with a high need for affiliation perform better in groups than alone (Klein & Pridemore, ). It is especially important to consider the need for affiliation and the negative consequences of isolation given such trends as having employees work from home (telecommut- ing) and sending employees to work in different countries (expatriates). Identifi cation Another reason we join groups is our desire for identification with some group or cause. There are many examples of this need to identify with others. In the s and s, young men wore their hair long; although some thought it attractive and comfortable, many others grew long hair because it helped them identify with other males of their generation and separated them from adult males of previous generations. Many of us still know someone who wears his hair long and makes references to the s and s, thus identifying himself with an earlier period. In the s and s, so-called punk and grunge styles of hair and clothes were worn by students in much the same way that long hair and tie-dyed shirts were worn by people in the s. In the current decade, tattoos and body piercing seem to be the mode of expression. For each generation, the purpose of the “odd” self-expression may have been to separate oneself from a previous generation and identifying with a new, “better” generation. Around your school you may notice that many students wear T-shirts with logos or messages. Students wearing “U,” “Los Angeles Lakers,” or “Spring Break Cancun ” shirts are all identifying with particular groups and thus are mak- ing statements about themselves. In an interesting study of how clothing is used as a means of identification, Cialdini and his colleagues () observed the number of students at several universities who wore school-related clothing such as T-shirts and sweatshirts on the Monday following a school football game. They found that following a foot- ball victory, many more students wore school-related clothing than on Mondays following football losses. In a second study, Cialdini et al. also asked students who won the football game. As we might expect, when the football team won, the stu- dents answered by saying, “We won.” When the team lost, the students answered by saying, “They lost.” On the basis of these two studies, Cialdini called this iden- tification process “basking in reflected glory.” Another example of the identification process comes from a major manufac- turing plant in Virginia. Several months before union contract talks began, the company gave each employee several nice shirts with the company name printed on the front. The company did this because it had previously noticed that in the months before contract negotiations began, the employees began to wear more union caps and shirts. The company believed that this clothing helped increase the employees’ level of identification with the union. To counter this effect, the company hoped that its shirts would influence the negotiation process. Although we cannot determine the exact effect of this strategy, that year was the only one in a decade in which union members did not strike. Emotional Support We also join groups to obtain emotional support. Alcoholics Anonymous, Gamblers Anonymous, and Weight Watchers are good examples of groups that group behavior, teams, and conflict 477 provide emotional support for their members. A quick perusal of ads in the local paper or a quick surfing of the Internet will demonstrate the importance of this need, as there are hundreds of different types of support groups. Assistance or Help People often join groups to obtain assistance or help. For example, students hav- ing problems with an algebra class might form a study group. Or, on the reality show Survivor, contestants might form alliances to increase the odds of not being voted off the island. Common Interests People often join groups because they share a common interest. At school, students joining a geology club share an interest in geology, students joining a fraternity share an interest in socializing, and students joining a service club such as Circle K or Alpha Phi Omega share an interest in helping people. It is an interesting side note that most campus clubs based on common aca- demic interests, such as a psychology club or a Latin club, are smaller and less active than other campus groups. Apparently, college students have many needs, and common academic interests are usually not as strong as the social needs satisfied by the Greek organizations. For example, a service club on the Radford University campus was having difficulty attracting members, so several advisors suggested that it increase its number of social activities to attract people who had both community service and social needs. This slight change in activities increased membership from  to . Genecor, a biotech firm in Palo Alto, California, is a good example of a com- pany that understands the importance of common employee interests. Genecor sponsors a wide variety of employee clubs, including yoga, cooking, and skiing. Although these clubs are voluntary, every employee belongs to at least one. Such activities are part of the reason Genecor was selected by HR Magazine in  as the best medium-sized company to work for. Common Goals People who join political parties exemplify being in pursuit of a common goal. These people may also share common interests, but their primary purpose is to get a particular person or members of a particular party elected to office. To apply the material you just learned about why people join groups, com-
