---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2da7e2e8a5542618f69981e0a6ff880302670a8d
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# Easing the Elder-Care Burden

In ,  million people in the United States were older than ; a number that is projected to increase to  million by . As the number of elderly increases, so too does the need for elder care. In , more than  million employees were providing elder care to a relative (Babcock, ): % of the people pro- viding elder care also work full- or part-time jobs, and % also care for children (O’Toole & Ferry, ). According to statistics generated by the National Coun- cil on Aging, % of employees taking care of an elderly relative were absent from work, arrived at work late, or left work early to care for the relative. Six percent quit working to spend the necessary elder-care time. Given the negative impact on emotional health of working and providing elder care (Lee, Walker, & Shoup, ), such statistics are not surprising.

In spite of the great demand for elder care, organizational efforts on this front have lagged behind child-care efforts. According to a survey by the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM, a), only % of organizations provide elder-care referral services, and a mere % offer a company-sponsored or on-site elder-care facility. The most common elder-care programs provided by employers include flexible work schedules, resource and referral programs, long-term care insurance, expanded FMLA benefits, flexible spending and dependent care accounts, adult day care, seminars, and support groups. Such

companies as AstraZeneca, Freddie Mac, Raytheon, Nike, and Intel offer semi- nars to employees to teach them how to care for their elderly relatives as well as deal with the stress that goes with such care.

The Federal National Mortgage Association, or “Fannie Mae,” is an excel- lent example of an employer that understands the potential elder-care crisis. After a survey of its employees revealed that % expected to take on elder-care responsibilities within five years, Fannie Mae hired a licensed clinical social worker to help employees coordinate elder care. Fannie Mae estimates that it saves $. in absenteeism and turnover costs for every $. it spent on its elder- care program. Most important, % of the employees said that they would have quit their jobs had they not had the company-provided help (Wells, ).
