data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk0848.md, before:

# Drug Testing

There are few legal problems associated with testing job applicants for drug use. However, drug testing of current employees by a public agency must be based on “reasonable suspicion” and with “just cause.” On the basis of prior cases, reason- able suspicion means that there is reason to suspect that employees are using drugs at work (Goldstein, ). Such suspicion can be produced from a variety of sources, including “tips” that employees are using drugs (Copeland v. Philadelphia Police Department, ; Feliciano v. Cleveland, ; Garrison v. Justice, ), accidents or discipline problems (Allen v. City of Marietta, ; Burnley v. Rail- way, ), actual observation of drug usage (Everett v. Napper, ), or physical symptoms of being under the influence (Connelly v. Newman, ).

The legality of random drug testing in the public sector is a murky area. When considering it, the courts consider the extent to which the special needs of the employer outweigh the employees’ right to privacy. For example, in Local  v. Janine Winters (), the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that random drug testing of probation and parole officers was justified, and in National Treasury Employers Union v. Von Rabb (), the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that random testing of customs officials involved in drug interdiction efforts was legal.

Traditionally, the courts consider the degree to which an employee’s behav- ior affects the safety and trust of the public as a factor in deciding whether the needs of the employer outweigh the employee’s right to privacy. For example, air traffic controllers (Government Employees v. Dole, ) and teachers (Knox County Education Association v. Knox County Board of Education, ) have been deemed to be responsible for the safety of the public, but school bus atten- dants have not (Jones v. McKenzie, ).

Other factors taken into consideration by the courts include the accuracy of the drug tests and the care and privacy taken during the testing (Hester v. City of Milledgeville, ; Triblo v. Quality Clinical Laboratories, ). The issue of privacy is an especially interesting one because employees who use drugs often try to “cheat” on their drug tests (Cadrain, a). Attempts at cheating include bringing in “clean” urine that has been taken or purchased from a friend, or dilut- ing the urine sample with soap, toilet water, or other chemicals. Strangely enough, to help applicants cheat on their drug tests, one company markets a product called “The Original Whizzinator,” a prosthetic penis containing a -ounce bag of dehydrated drug-free urine and an organic heating pad to keep the urine at body

temperature (Cadrain, a). You might recall seeing on TV in May  that Onterrio Smith, the former Minnesota Vikings running back who had failed pre- vious drug tests, was caught at the Minneapolis airport with a Whizzinator.

To stop such attempts, some organizations have required those to be tested to strip so that they cannot bring anything into the test area; they also may require that the employee be observed while he provides the urine specimen. Testing conditions such as these would be allowed only under the most serious situations involving national security.

Two other important issues are the appeal process (Harvey v. Chicago Tran- sit Authority, ) and the confidentiality of test results (Ivy v. Damon Clinical Laboratory, ). Employees must be given the opportunity to have their speci- mens retested and to explain why their tests were positive even though they may not have taken illegal drugs.

Thus, for a drug testing program to be legal, the organization must have rea- son to suspect drug usage, the job must involve the safety or trust of the public, the testing process must be accurate and reasonably private, the results should be handled in a confidential manner, and employees who test positive must be given opportunities to appeal and undergo rehabilitation. A detailed discussion of the use and validity of drug testing for employee selection can be found in Chapter .

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk0848.md, after:

---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2a0e93148fb1219c6c788167a72eb57c83bdbed8
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# Consequences of Aﬃ rmative Action Plans

Though affirmative action programs are an important tool in ensuring equal opportunity, they can result in some negative consequences for people hired or promoted as the result of affirmative action (Kravitz et al., ). Research indicates that employees hired due to affirmative action programs are perceived by coworkers as less competent (Heilman, Block, & Lucas, ; Heilman, Block, & Stathatos, ), have a tendency to devalue their own performance (Heilman & Alcott, ; Heilman, Lucas, & Kaplow, ), and behave negatively toward oth- ers who are hired based on affirmative action programs (Heilman, Kaplow, Amato, & Stathatos, ). These effects can be reduced when applicants are given posi- tive information about their abilities (Heilman et al, ; Kravitz et al., ). Not surprisingly, women and ethnic minorities hold more positive views toward affir- mative action than do males and nonminorities (Kravitz & Platania, ).

The Heilman and Kravitz studies suggest that affirmative action programs can have negative consequences for their recipients. Affirmative action programs may also have negative consequences for an organization. Silva and Jacobs () found that hiring minorities above their level of representation in the applicant pool (affirmative action) resulted in decreased organizational performance. With all of these studies in mind, it is essential that an organization weigh the many ben- efits of affirmative action programs against the programs’ unintended side effects.

As discussed previously in the chapter, an employment practice is illegal if it results in adverse impact and is not job related. An employment practice can also be illegal if it unnecessarily violates an individual’s right to privacy.

The Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution protects citizens against unreasonable search or seizure by the government. Its importance to I/O psychology

legal issues in employee selection

105

106

chapter 

is in the area of drug testing and locker searches. Several courts have ruled that drug testing is considered a “search” and that therefore, to be legal in the public sector, drug testing programs must be reasonable and with cause. It is important to understand that the Fourth Amendment is limited to public agencies such as state and local governments. Private industry is not restricted from drug testing by the Fourth Amendment unless government regulations require drug testing (for example, for trucking companies and railroads), but drug testing and searches by a private organization must be conducted in “good faith and with fair dealing.”

Generally, employers are free (even encouraged by the government) to test job applicants for current drug use. In fact, the federal Drug-Free Workplace Act requires employers with federal contracts of $, or more to maintain a drug-free workplace. Furthermore, such states as Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, and Georgia provide discounts on workers’ compensation rates to employers with a drug-free workplace program (Steingold, ).
