# complete Exercise . in your workbook. Subject Samples Decisions also must be made regarding the size, composition, and method of selecting the subjects who will serve as the sample in a study. Although it is nice to have a large sample for any research study, a large sample size is not neces- sary if the experimenter can choose a random sample and control for many of the extraneous variables. In fact, properly conducted surveys need only about , participants to generalize survey results to the entire U.S. population (Deane, ). The method of selecting the sample is certainly dependent on the nature of the organization. A small organization will probably be forced to use all of its employees, which means that the sample will be small but highly representative of the intended population. For economical and practical reasons, a large organi- zation will select only certain employees to participate in a study rather than use the entire workforce. The problem then becomes one of which employees will participate. If the study involves a questionnaire, it is no problem to randomly select a desired number of employees and have them complete the survey. If, however, the study is more elaborate, such as investigating the effects of lighting on performance, it would be difficult to randomly select employees. That is, it would not be practical to have one employee work under high levels of light while the person next to her is uninvolved with the experiment. If we decide to have one plant work with high levels of light and another with lower levels, what we gain in practicality we lose in randomness and control. So we try to strike a balance between practicality and experimental rigor. To increase experimental rigor and decrease the costs of conducting research, many studies are conducted at universities using students as subjects rather than employees. In fact, college students served as subjects in % of research studies published in four leading I/O journals (Roch, ). This use of students has led to considerable debate regarding the generalizability of university research; that is, do students behave in the same fashion as employees? Some authors (e.g., Sears, ) point out that compared with adults, college students are younger, more educated, and more egocentric; possess a less formulated sense of self; and have a stronger need for peer approval. Because of these differences, it makes sense that students would behave differently than adults who are in the working world. Research on this issue, however, is mixed. Some researchers have found dif- ferences between student subjects and professional subjects, but others have not (Bordens & Abbott, ). In general, the preponderance of research indicates that college-student samples behave differently than do real-world or nonaca- demic samples (Barr & Hitt, ; Burnett & Dunne, ; Gordon & Arvey, ; Jawahar & Williams, ). These findings suggest that in certain cases, using students as research subjects may not generalize to the real world. A final important issue concerns the method used to recruit subjects. To obtain the best research results, it is essential to use a random sample so that the sample will be as representative as possible. This means that if a survey is randomly sent to  employees, the research will be most accurate only if all employees return the survey. The problem is that researchers are unlikely to get a % return rate if study participation is voluntary. The ethics of the American Psychological Association (APA) require voluntary participation, but accurate research often requires compulsory participation. How do researchers resolve this dilemma? In some organizations, employees are required to sign a statement when they are hired agreeing to participate in any organizational research studies. To underscore this agreement, research participation is listed in each employee’s job description. Proponents of this method argue that participation in research is still volun- tary because the individual had the choice of either not taking the job or taking it with the advance knowledge of research requirements. Opponents argue that taking a job or not taking a job in order to make a living does not constitute a proper and completely free choice. Similarly, in some universities, students have the option of participating in a few research studies or writing a term paper. Even though the students are given an alternative to research participation, some psychologists argue that the choice between writing a term paper that will take several days and participating in two or three experiments that will take a few hours is not a legitimate choice (Sieber & Saks, ). Because obtaining random samples is very difficult, especially in industry, many studies use a convenience sample and then randomly assign subjects to the various experimental conditions. A convenience sample, such as students in a psy- chology class, is easily available to a researcher. With random assignment, each subject in a nonrandom sample is randomly assigned to a particular experimental condition. For example, in a study designed to test the effectiveness of a training method,  subjects agree to participate in the study. Thirty of the subjects are randomly assigned to the group receiving training, and another  are randomly assigned to the control group that does not receive training. Random assignment is important when using convenience samples, as research indicates that random and nonrandom assignment result in different outcomes (Shadish & Ragsdale, ). introduction to i/o psychology 27 28 chapter  Running the Study When all of these decisions have been made, it is finally time to run the study and collect data. To ensure that data are collected in an unbiased fashion, it is impor- tant that all instructions to the subjects be stated in a standardized fashion and at a level that is understandable. Once the subject is finished with her participation, she should be debriefed, or told the purpose of the experiment and be given a chance to ask questions about her participation. Statistical Analysis After all data have been collected, the results are statistically analyzed. A dis- cussion of statistics is beyond the scope of this book, but it is important to understand why statistics are used. Statistical analysis helps us determine how confident we are that our results are real and did not occur by chance alone. For example, if we conducted a study in your classroom in which we compared the average age of students on the left side of the room with that of students on the right side of the room, we would no doubt get a difference. That is, the aver- age age of the students on the right would not be exactly the same as that for students on the left. If we did not conduct a statistical analysis of our data, we would conclude that people on the right side are older than people on the left side. Perhaps we could even develop a theory about our results! Does this sound ridiculous? Of course it does. But it points out the idea that any set of numbers we collect will in all probability be different. The ques- tion is, are they significantly different? Statistical analysis provides the answer by determining the probability that our data were the result of chance. In psychology, we use the . level of significance: If our analysis indicates that the probability that our data resulted from chance is % or less, we consider our results to be statistically significant. Although the . level of significance is the most commonly used, some researchers have suggested that we should be more flexible and use either more conservative or more liberal levels, depending upon the situation (Bordens & Abbott, ). At this point, a caution must be made about the interpretation of significance levels. Significance levels indicate only the level of confidence we can place on a result being the product of chance. They say nothing about the strength of the results. Thus, a study with results significant at the . level does not necessar- ily show a stronger effect than a study with results significant at the . level of confidence. To determine the strength of a finding, we use the effect size, discussed ear- lier in the section on meta-analysis. Significance levels tell us the statistical sig- nificance of a study, and effect sizes (combined with logic) tell us the practical significance of a study. For example, suppose we conduct a study comparing the SAT scores of male and female high school students. Based on a sample of  million students, we find that males average , and females ,. With such a huge sample size, we will probably find that the two means are statistically different. However, with only a -point difference between the two groups on a test with a maximum score of ,, we would probably not place much practical significance in the difference. Correlation. It is necessary to discuss one particular statistic—correlation—because it is so widely used in I/O psychology and throughout this book. Correlation is a statistical procedure that enables a