# Peers

Whereas supervisors see the results of an employee’s efforts, peers often see the actual behavior. Peer ratings usually come from employees who work directly with an employee; a bank teller could be rated by other bank tellers. However, other employees in the organization, those who often come in contact with the employee, can also provide useful information. For example, our teller could be rated by employees from the loan support or Visa card departments.

Research has shown that peer ratings are fairly reliable only when the peers who make the ratings are similar to and well acquainted with the employees being rated (Mumford, ). Most important, peer ratings have been successful in predicting the future success of promoted employees, as they correlate highly with supervisor ratings (Cederbloom, ).

Research suggests that certain employees are more lenient in their peer ratings than are other employees. Saavedra and Kwun () found that high performers evaluate their peers more strictly than do low performers. This difference in ratings is probably because employees compare others to themselves. Thus, the average employee does not appear impressive to a high performer but may do so to a less productive employee. Though peers may provide a unique view of per- formance, employees tend to react worse to negative feedback from peers than from experts (Albright & Levy, ). Employees who score high in self-esteem, high in self-monitoring, and low in individualism react most favorably to peer ratings (Long, Long, & Dobbins, ).