---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 314dbf77a8b4d7ce08619b3ada217d2beb7346ce
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# Days Missed Instances = 8 = 3 Increasing Attendance by Reducing Employee Stress Absenteeism can be reduced by removing the negative factors employees associ- ate with going to work. One of the most important of these factors is stress. The greater the job stress, the lower the job satisfaction and commitment, greater the probability that most people will want to skip work. As will be discussed in great detail in Chapter , there are many sources of stress at work including physical danger, boredom, overload, conflict, and bad management practices. To increase attendance, then, negative factors must be eliminated. The first step in this elimination, of course, is to become aware of the negative factors that bother employees. These can be determined by asking supervisors or by distrib- uting employee questionnaires. Once the problems are known, it is important that management diligently work to eliminate the identified problems from the workplace. As will also be discussed in Chapter , employers engage in a variety of programs designed to reduce job-related stress as well as stress from family and personal issues. Meta-analysis results indicate that these programs are suc- cessful in reducing employee stress levels, but have only a negligible effect on reducing absenteeism (Richardson & Rothstein, ). To help employees cope with stress and personal problems, % of employers offer some form of employee assistance program (EAP) (SHRM, a). EAPs use professional counselors to deal with employee problems. An employee with a problem can either choose to see a counselor on her own or be recommended by her supervisor. Some large organizations have their own EAP counselors, but most use private agencies, which are often run through local hospitals. The motivation for EAPs may be good, but little if any empirical evidence supports their effectiveness. Still, many organizations have used EAPs and have been quite pleased with them. Independently operated EAPs typically claim a three to one return on the dollars invested through increased productivity and reduced absenteeism and turnover. employee satisfaction and commitment 391 392 chapter  Increasing Attendance by Reducing Illness As shown in Table ., about % of absenteeism is due to employee illness—a percentage that mirrors that of college students missing class. Kovach, Surrette, and Whitcomb () asked more than  general psychology students to anonymously provide the reason for each day of class they missed. Less than % of the missed days were the result of illness! To reduce absenteeism related to illness, organizations are implementing a variety of wellness programs. According to the  SHRM Benefit Survey (SHRM, a): 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 % have some form of wellness program. % provide on-site vaccinations. % have on-site health screening (e.g., blood pressure, cholesterol). % have a smoking cessation program. % subsidize the cost of off-site fitness center dues. % offer a weight-loss program. % have on-site fitness centers. % offer stress reduction programs. % offer on-site medical care. To reduce both absenteeism and health care costs, many employers are rewarding employees whose body mass index, cholesterol levels, and blood pressure levels are within acceptable ranges (Cornwell, ). Typically, the reward comes in the form of a reduction in the employee’s monthly health care premium. Other organizations take a more punitive approach and increase the premiums of unhealthy employees. For example, beginning in , Clarian Health in Indianapolis, Indiana, began reducing the pay by ten dollar per pay- check for employees whose body mass index was greater than .. Two meta-analyses suggest that worksite fitness programs have a small but significant effect on reducing absenteeism. The meta-analysis of  studies by Parks and Steelman () found an effect size of −., and the meta-analysis by Wolkove and Layman () found an effect size of −.. Parks and Steelman further found that wellness programs increase job satisfaction (d = .). Results found by Erfurt, Foote, and Heirich () did not support the effectiveness of wellness programs in reducing health problems. Reducing Absenteeism by Not Hiring “Absence-Prone” Employees An interesting theory of absenteeism postulates that one reason people miss work is the result of a particular set of personality traits they possess. That is, certain types of people are more likely to miss work than other types. In fact, in one study, only % of the employees were responsible for all of the unavoidable absenteeism (Dalton & Mesch, ). Although little research has tested this theory, Kovach et al. () did find that the best predictor of student attendance in general psychology courses was a compulsive, rule-oriented personality. Research by Judge, Martocchio, and Thoresen () supports these findings. Judge and his colleagues found that individuals high in the personality trait of conscientiousness and low in extra- version were least likely to miss work. If more research supports this theory, then a new strategy for increasing employee attendance might be to screen out “absence-prone people” during the selection stage. Uncontrollable Absenteeism Caused by Unique Events Many times an individual will miss work because of events or conditions that are beyond management’s control. One study estimated that % of absenteeism is unavoidable (Dalton & Mesch, ). For example, bad weather is one reason absenteeism is higher in the Northeast than in the South. Although an orga- nization can do little to control weather, the accessibility of the plant or office can be considered in the decision of where to locate. In fact, this is one reason many organizations have started in or moved to the so-called Sunbelt in the last two decades. Organizations may also want to offer some type of shuttle service for their employees to avoid not only weather problems but also any resulting mechanical failures of employees’ automobiles. Bad weather can certainly be a legitimate reason for an employee to miss work, but one study found that job satisfaction best predicted attendance on days with poor weather. That is, in good weather, most employees attended, but in inclement weather, only those employees with high job satisfaction attended. Thus, even in bad weather, the degree to which an employee likes her job will help to determine her attendance. As the late industrial psychologist Dan Johnson has asked: “How come we hear about employees not being able to get to work and students not being able to attend class because of bad weather, yet we don’t ever hear about an employee or a student who can’t get home because of bad weather?” It certainly makes one think! The Absenteeism Exercise (Exercise .) in your workbook gives you the opportunity to apply theories of absenteeism. Turnover Cost of Turnover As mentioned previously in this chapter and depicted in Table ., employees with low job satisfaction and low organizational commitment are more likely to quit their jobs and change careers than are employees with high job satisfaction and high organizational commitment. Though turnover rates fluctuate from year to year, about .% of an organization’s employees leave each month (.% per year). Turnover is a problem because the cost of losing an employee is esti- mated at . times the employee’s salary (Bliss, ). Thus, if an employee’s annual salary is $,, the cost to replace the employee will be $,. Both visible and hidden costs determine this estimate. Visible costs of turnover include advertising charges, employment agency fees, referral bonuses, recruit- ment travel costs, salaries and benefits associated with the employee time spent processing applications and interviewing candidates, and relocation expenses for the new employee. Hidden costs include the loss of productivity associated with the employee leaving—other employees trying to do extra work, no productiv- ity occurring from the vacant position—and the lower productivity associated with a new employee being trained. Additional hidden costs include overtime of employees covering the duties of the vacant position and training costs once the replacement is hired. The actual cost of turnover for any given position can be more accurately estimated using a formula such as one of those found on the text website. employee satisfaction and commitment 393 394 chapter  In terms of turnover in an organization, there are four views on the effect of performance on such factors as safety, productivity, and profitability. These are: 7 7 7 7 There is a negative correlation such that higher turnover rates will result in lower organizational performance. Because some turnover is healthy for an organization, there is a U-shaped relationship between turnover and performance such that very low or very high levels of turnover will result in lower organizational performance, but a moderate amount of turnover will result in higher performance. The negative effect of turnover is strongest when an organization’s turnover rate is low, and this effect then diminishes as turnover rates climb. The effect of turnover on organizational performance is mediated by the strength of an organization’s HR efforts. Turnover will most affect organizations that don’t invest in their employees and will least affect organizations that spend time and money to develop their employees. Though all four theories make good sense, research seems to support
