# Interpreted Message % of the white-collar workday is spent communicating. Of that, % is spent in writing, % in reading, % in speaking, and % in listening. Thus, a manager spends more time listening than doing any other single activity. This is an impor- tant point for two reasons. First, listening is a skill, and our formal education in high school and college does not prepare us for managerial communication (Burley-Allen, ). We are required to take English courses to improve our reading and writing and are usu- ally required to take one speech course to improve our oral communication skills, but we spend little, if any, time learning how to listen. Thus, the amount of time spent learning about various types of communication is inversely related to the actual amount of time spent by managers on the job. Second, listening effectiveness is poor. It has been estimated that immedi- ately after a meeting, we retain only % of the material we have heard and only % of the material  hours later (Nichols & Stevens, ). Although much of this loss can be attributed to poor memory practices, some is the result of poor listening habits. Styles of Listening What can be done to increase listening effectiveness? Perhaps the most important thing we can do is to recognize that every person has a particular “listening style” that serves as a communication filter. Geier and Downey () have developed a test, the Attitudinal Listening Profile, to measure an employee’s listening style. Their theory postulates six main styles of listening: leisure, inclusive, stylistic, technical, empathic, and nonconforming (LISTEN). Leisure listening is practiced by “good-time” people who listen only for words that indicate pleasure. For example, a student who is a leisure listener will pay attention only when the teacher is interesting and tells jokes. As an employee, she is the last one to “hear” that employees are needed to work overtime. Inclusive listening is the style of the person who listens for the main ideas behind any communication. In an hour-long meeting full of details and facts about a decline in sales, the only information this type of listener will “hear” is the main point that sales are down and that things had better improve. This listening style can be an advantage when cutting through a jungle of detail, but it can be a disadvantage when detail is important. Stylistic listening is practiced by the person who listens to the way the com- munication is presented. Stylistic listeners will not listen unless the speaker’s style is appropriate, the speaker “looks the part,” or both. For example, when speaking to a stylistic listener, a lecturer on finance will find an attentive ear only if she wears a nice suit. After all, this listener reasons, if the lecturer cannot afford a nice suit, why listen to what she has to say about investing money? Similarly, if the speaker says that an event will be fun, she must sound as if she means it. And if an employee calls in sick to a manager who is a stylistic listener, she had better “sound” sick. Technical listening is the style practiced by the “Jack Webbs” of the listen- ing world—those who want “just the facts, ma’am.” The technical listener hears and retains large amounts of detail, but she does not hear the meaning of those details. In the earlier example of the meeting in which employees are told that sales have decreased, the technical listener will hear and remember that sales last year were .% higher than this year, that profits are down by %, and that six employees will probably be laid off—but she will miss the point that unless sales improve, she could be one of those six. Empathic listening tunes in to the feelings of the speaker and, of the six listening types, is the most likely to pay attention to nonverbal cues. Thus, an empathic listener will listen to an employee complain about her boss and is the only one of the six types of listeners who will not only pay attention but also understand that the employee’s complaints indicate true frustration and unhap- piness. Nonconforming listening is practiced by the individual who attends only to information that is consistent with her way of thinking. If the nonconforming listener does not agree with a speaker, she will not listen to what the speaker says. Furthermore, the nonconforming listener will pay attention only to those people she considers to be strong or to have authority. How Listening Styles Aff ect Communication The following example will demonstrate the importance of the six listening styles in a work setting. Suppose an employee approaches a supervisor and tells her that she has a temperature of  degrees. How would each of the six listeners react? The leisure listener would pay little attention to the employee because she does not like to hear about unpleasant things, and illness certainly is not pleas- ant. The inclusive listener would probably tell a story about when she had a high temperature, thinking that the topic of conversation is fever. You may have friends who often say things that are not related to your conversation; as this example points out, they are probably inclusive listeners who mistake the main points of a conversation. In this case, the employee is communicating that she does not feel well; she is not discussing “temperatures I have had.” The stylistic listener would pay attention only if the employee sounded and looked ill. You may have also called a professor or a date and tried to sound ill in order to cancel an appointment or a date. Few people actually sound ill even when they are, but we understand the importance of style in listening and behave accordingly. The technical listener would hear every word but would not realize their meaning. That is,  minutes later, when another employee asked whether Sue is sick, the supervisor would respond, “She didn’t say. She has a temperature of , but I’m not sure how she is feeling.” The nonconforming listener would pay little attention to the employee. After all, if she actually had a temperature of  degrees, she would be dead, and because she is not dead, she must be lying. Of course, the employee exaggerated organizational communication 427 428 chapter  her temperature because she was emphasizing the point that she is sick. But the nonconforming listener would not “hear” anything once she recognized that an initial statement was incorrect. In this example, the empathic listener would be the only one who would understand the real point of the communication. The employee is mentioning her temperature because she does not feel well and wants to go home. Understanding each of the six styles can make communication more effective in two ways. First, becoming aware of your own style allows you to understand the filter you use when listening to others. For example, a student who uses a lei- sure style may need to recognize that if she listens only to lectures that she finds interesting, she probably will miss a lot of important information. She might want to learn how to concentrate on lectures even when they are boring. Second, understanding the six styles can lead to better communication with others. For example, when speaking to an inclusive listener, we must either write down relevant details that we want her to remember or have her repeat the details. Otherwise, the inclusive listener will remember only the main point: “I know there is a party tonight, but I’m not sure when or where.” On the other hand, when we speak to a technical listener, it is important to tell her what the details mean. For example, if you tell a technical listener there will be a party at your house on Thursday at : p.m., you should also add that she is invited, or she will understand only that there is a party, and not that she has been invited. Of course, the million-dollar question is, “How can we tell what style of lis- tener is listening to us?” The best way might be to test the listener on the Attitu- dinal Listening Profile mentioned earlier, but this is hardly practical. The most practical method is to use the person’s speaking style as an indicator of listening style. If the person usually mentions how she feels about things, she is probably an empathic listener, but if she speaks with a lot of detail, she is probably a tech- nical listener. Someone speaking to a group, of course, must relate to all styles of listeners. The best communicators will have something for everyone. A good instructor will provide jokes and humorous stories for leisure listeners, use an outline for- mat and provide main points for inclusive listeners, provide specific facts and details for technical listeners, discuss her feelings about the topic for empathic listeners, have good speaking skills and appropriate dress for stylistic listeners, and be