## Using Simulation Exercises to Practice New Skills

Whereas case studies are effective in applying knowledge and learning problem- solving skills, simulation exercises allow the trainee to practice newly learned skills. Simulations offer the advantage of allowing the trainee to work with equip- ment under actual working conditions without the consequences of mistakes. For example, using a cash register or taking a customer’s order is easy to learn. But it is a much more difficult task with a long line of angry customers or irritable coworkers. Simulation exercises allow the trainee to feel such pressure but with- out actually affecting the organization’s performance.

Like all training methods, simulation exercises come in many different forms. Some, such as airline simulators, are extremely expensive and complex to use, but others, such as a simulated restaurant counter, are relatively inexpensive. For example, each week at the Salamander Restaurant in Cambridge, Massachusetts, servers role-play such situations as medical emergencies and computer breakdowns (Gruner & Caggiano, ). Another good example of an inexpensive simulation exercise is that used by nurses to teach patients with diabetes how to administer their insulin shots—the patients practice by injecting water into oranges.

Whatever the method used, a simulation exercise can be effective only if it physically and psychologically simulates actual job conditions. For example, dummy simulators are a standard part of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) training provided by the American Red Cross. People practice CPR on the dum- mies, which simulate the human body and also provide feedback on pressure and location of chest compressions. Although the use of these CPR simulators is probably better than lecture alone, there is some concern that the dummies do not adequately simulate the feel of the human chest. Even worse, practicing CPR on a dummy in front of fellow employees does not involve the pressure or envi- ronment that is often encountered in an actual emergency.

Although most simulators do not exactly replicate actual physical and psy- chological job conditions, they are still better than the single alternatives of either lecture or actual practice. That is, training a pilot is cheaper on a simulator than on a passenger jet, and it is safer (for humans) for a medical student to practice on a pig than on a sick patient. Rapid advances in virtual reality technology hold tremendous promise for trainers (Hurst, ). Virtual reality is already being used to train soldiers, surgeons, air traffic controllers, and police officers. The day that we can exactly simulate real working conditions may not be far away.