## Are Rewards and Resources Given Equitably?

One factor related to both job satisfaction and employee motivation is the extent to which employees perceive that they are being treated fairly. As you probably recall from Chapter , equity theory is based on the premise that our levels of job satisfaction and motivation are related to how fairly we believe we are treated in comparison with others. If we believe we are treated unfairly, we attempt to change our beliefs or behaviors until the situation appears to be fair.

Research on equity has recently expanded into what researchers call distribu- tive justice, procedural justice, and interactional justice. Distributive justice is the perceived fairness of the actual decisions made in an organization, procedural justice is the perceived fairness of the methods used to arrive at the decision,

and interactional justice is the perceived fairness of the interpersonal treat- ment employees receive. Take, for example, a situation in which three employees are competing for a promotion. The organization has decided that the basis for the promotion decision will be a combination of the employees’ performance appraisal scores (%), interview with the supervisor (%), and a score on a managerial assessment center (%). The extent to which the employees believe that the use of the performance appraisal, interview, and assessment center scores is fair would involve their perceptions of procedural justice. Their agreement with who got promoted involves their perceptions of distributive justice.

As shown in Table ., meta-analysis results indicate that perceived justice is related to several important factors, including job satisfaction, organizational commitment, performance, trust, withdrawal (e.g., turnover, absenteeism), and negative employee reactions (e.g., theft, sabotage). Because the relationships between perceptions of justice and employee attitudes and behavior are so strong, it is essential that employers be open about how decisions are made, take time to develop fair procedures, and provide feedback to employees who might not be happy with decisions that are made (Jordan, ).

One of the greatest problems with the equity and justice theories is that despite their rational sense, they are difficult to implement. That is, based on equity and justice theories, the best way to keep employees satisfied would be to treat them all fairly, which would entail paying the most to those employees who contributed the most. Although few of us would disagree with this approach, it is difficult to implement for several reasons.

The first is practicality. An organization certainly can control such variables as salary, hours worked, and benefits, but it cannot easily control other vari- ables, such as how far an employee lives from work or the number of friends an employee makes on the job.

The second reason that equity is difficult to achieve is that the employee’s perception of inputs and outputs determines equity, not the actual inputs and outputs. For example, two students of equal ability receive the same grade on an exam. One student knows that she studied ten hours for the exam but never saw