# Coercive Style in a Climate of Crisis

A person using the coercive style leads by controlling reward and punishment and is most effective in a climate of crisis. Such a leader will often use statements such as “Do it or you’re fired” or “If you can get the package there on time, I will have a little something for you.” This style is typical in war. If soldiers disobey an order, an officer can have them shot. Conversely, if soldiers behave with bravery and distinction, an officer can reward them with a medal or promotion.

Mulder, de Jong, Koppelaar, and Verhage () found support for the situa- tional appropriateness of coercive styles of leadership. They studied the behavior of bankers whose leadership styles had been measured by the Influence Analysis Ques- tionnaire. Mulder and his colleagues found that in crisis situations, bankers tend to use more formal and coercive types of power than they do in noncrisis situations.

The importance of leaders’ use of reward and punishment was best dem- onstrated in a series of studies by Komaki (). Komaki and her colleagues observed a wide range of managers/leaders including police sergeants, sailboat skippers, construction supervisors, and investment bankers and concluded that the best managers complimented and rewarded their employees/ subordinates who performed well and sanctioned those who did not. Perhaps the most important finding was that the best managers/leaders spend considerable time gathering performance information from their subordinates, sometimes asking simple questions such as, “How is it going?”