# Mild weather Note: Absenteeism rate in 2000 before child-care center = 5.09%, rate in 2001 after child-care center = 3.01% to obtain. Workers may have reduced their absentee rates out of fear of being fired, and turnover may have been reduced because employees realized that few jobs were available. In addition, the weather improved in the second year, which meant workers were rarely unable to get to work. Taken by itself, we would certainly not want to bet the mortgage on the results of our quasi-experiment. But if  other researchers conduct separate quasi-experiments to study the same question and find similar results, we might feel confident enough to make changes or reach conclusions based on the avail- able research evidence. Archival Research. Another research method that is commonly used in I/O psychol- ogy is archival research. Archival research involves using previously collected data or records to answer a research question. For example, if we want to know what distinguishes good workers from poor workers, we could look in the personnel files to see whether the backgrounds of good workers have common characteris- tics not shared by poor workers. Or, if we want to see if people on the night shift had more turnover than people on the day shift, we could get information on shift and turnover from the company records. Archival research has many desirable features, such as not being obtrusive or expensive, but it also has severe draw- backs (Shultz, Hoffman, & Reiter-Palmon, ). Records in files are not always accurate and are not always kept up-to-date. Furthermore, the type of data needed by a researcher may not be in the archives because the data were never recorded in the first place. As an undergraduate (this was before the big dance), I was involved with an archival study designed to determine why some students in an executive Master of Business Administration (MBA) program dropped out while others completed their coursework. What was supposed to be an easy job of getting records from a few files turned into a nightmare. The records of more than  students were scattered in storage rooms in three locations in southern California and were not filed in any order. Furthermore, almost every student had at least one important item missing from his or her file. Needless to say, these problems kept the results of the study from being as accurate as desired. Now, however, the computeriza- tion of information has greatly increased the potential for archival research. Surveys. Another method of conducting research is to ask people their opinion on some topic. Surveys might ask employees about their attitudes toward the organization, HR directors about their opinions regarding the best recruitment method, or managers about the success of their child-care centers. Surveys can be conducted by mail, personal interviews, phone, fax, email, Internet, or magazines. The method chosen depends on such factors as sample size, budget, amount of time available to conduct the study, and need for a representative sample. For example, mail surveys are less expensive and time-consuming than personal interviews but result in lower response rates and, at times, lower- quality answers. Email surveys are inexpensive but are limited to people who have email (not a representative sample), are more subject to size and format restrictions, and result in lower response rates than mail surveys (Czaja & Blair, ). Internet sur- veys are also inexpensive, but as with email, are limited to people who have access to a computer. A comparison of people responding to Internet surveys and those responding to more traditional methods indicates that Internet surveys more accu- rately reflect the population in terms of gender and social class but less accurately reflect the population in terms of race (Gosling, Vazire, Srivastava, & John, ). introduction to i/o psychology 23 24 chapter  Surveys contained in magazines and professional publications (e.g., HR Magazine, Training and Development Journal) are common, but as with email, they may not result in a representative sample. The importance of the survey method used cannot be overstated. For example, in  the Roanoke Times and World News conducted a survey of the top motion pictures in history. People who mailed in their votes chose Gone with the Wind, The Sound of Music, The Wizard of Oz, It’s a Wonderful Life, and To Kill a Mockingbird as their top five; people who responded by email chose Gone with the Wind, Star Wars, Schindler’s List, The Wizard of Oz, and The Shawshank Redemption. Another example of differences in survey samples occurred in February . Nykesha Sales was one point short of setting the University of Connecti- cut career-scoring record in women’s basketball when she ruptured an Achilles tendon, an injury that ended her season. Her coach arranged a deal with their next opponent (Villanova) to allow Sales to score an uncontested basket so that she could break the record. In the days after the Villanova game, the media debated whether allowing Sales to score was a class act designed to honor a great player or a strike at the integrity of the game. In separate surveys, % of respondents to ESPN’s website thought the gesture was a class act compared with only % of the respondents to USA Today’s website (Patrick, ). A multinational study by Church () found some interesting results regarding survey methods. Employees from the United States, Japan, and France preferred automated phone response technology, whereas employees in Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom preferred the traditional paper-and-pencil method. Employees completing the survey online were more likely to leave items blank than were employees using a paper-and-pencil format. Although a high response rate is essential for trust to be placed in survey results, survey response rates in America and Europe have been on the decline (Porter, ). Response rates for a survey mailing can be increased by provid- ing either monetary or nonmonetary incentives; making the incentive contingent on returning the survey does not greatly improve response rates. Response rates can also be increased by making several contacts with respondents, keeping the survey under four pages, and having the survey sponsored by a university rather than a business (Porter, ). Well-designed survey questions are easy to understand, use simple language, do not ask about hypothetical situations, and are relatively short in length. Care must be taken in choosing the words used in each question. An excellent example of this comes from the polls conducted during the impeachment of former president Bill Clinton. First, accurate poll results were hindered by the fact that nearly one-third of adults didn’t understand the word “impeachment” (Morin, ). Second, the wording of the different polls resulted in substantially different results. Consider the following examples provided by Morin (): Should Clinton resign if he is impeached or should he fight the charges in the Senate? Should Clinton resign if he is impeached or should he remain in office to stand trial in the Senate? For the first question, % said that Clinton should resign. For the second ques- tion, only % said he should resign. A final issue involving surveys is the extent to which responses to the survey questions are accurate. This issue is especially important when asking about sensitive or controversial issues. That is, if I ask whether you believe that men and women are equally qualified to be managers, would you tell the truth if you thought men were better qualified? Would people honestly respond to questions about their former drug use, poor performance at work, or unethical behavior? Probably not. But they do seem to be accurate when reporting such things as height and body weight (Imrhan, Imrhan, & Hart, ). A good example of people not being truthful in surveys occurred when researchers asked , adults if they regularly washed their hands after using a public restroom; % said yes. However, when researchers observed people in restrooms, less than % washed their hands (Mattox, ). Inaccurately responding to survey questions is not always an intentional attempt to be dishonest. Instead, inaccurate responses can be the result of a person not actually knowing the correct answer to a question. For example, an employee might respond to a question about attendance by stating she has missed three days of work in the past year when in fact she missed five. Was she lying, or just mistaken about her attendance record? Meta-Analysis. Meta-analysis is a statistical method of reaching conclusions based on previous research. Prior to meta-analysis, a researcher interested in reviewing the literature on a topic would read all of the available research and then make a rather subjective conclusion based on the articles. With meta-analysis, the researcher goes through each article, determines the effect size for each article, and then finds a statistical average of effect sizes across all articles. A meta- analysis results in one number, called the mean effect size, which indicates the effectiveness of some variable. Correlation coefficients (r) are used as the effect size when researchers are interested in the