---
source_path: industrial_and_organizational_psychology_3_2010_386_405.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a06c8d26edde697e0842ea41d4604d5be4e3c4c3
title: industrial_and_organizational_psychology_3_2010_386_405
---
# 400

measure of regret is a one-item measure (e.g., Ku, 2008). ToanIOOB researcher, this automatically raises red ﬂags. Measuring the major criterion variable with only one item is not consistent with our training in psychometrics. Another

JDM area that could bene- ﬁt from IOOB research is individual dif- ferences associated with decision mak- ing (Mohammed & Schwall, 2009). There are many areas within IOOB that have had a ‘‘personality renaissance’’ of late: leadership, motivation, and even macro constructs change. like organizational However, decision making has been excluded from this list. That is, researchers have talked about situational characteris- tics and the context being very important in decision making but have largely ignored the person, the decision maker himself or herself, and the inﬂuences that he or she brings to the process. There is a litera- ture on individual differences in decision making, but it tends to be dispersed across many different, eclectic journals and sev- eral decades, so it has not had the kind of that many other areas have had. In addition, some of the individual differences that have been looked at histori- cally in the decision-making literature, such as need for cognition (Cacioppo & Petty, 1982) and risk-taking propensity (Bromiley & Curley, 1992; see also Kahneman & Tversky, 1979), have been very close to decision making itself. A valuable way that IOOB can contribute is by introducing addi- tional individual differences into the JDM literature, such as motivation-based differ- ences (e.g., action-state orientation; Kuhl & Beckmann, 1994). Because of its norma- tive focus, JDM research has been oriented more towards trying to ﬁnd commonali- ties rather than differences. The methods (e.g., experimental paradigms in which the task characteristics are manipulated) contribute to overwhelming the individual (Weiss & Adler, 1984). difference effect In addition, limiting decision making to the choice point (e.g., do decision makers choose investment A or investment B?) is
