---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 018e67b4423021684386de49b99d82b5be987edd
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# y s e t r u o C My company conducts research to develop and validate physical performance and cognitive tests and medical guidelines. To provide our clients with valid, defensible selection, evaluation, and promotion instruments, we conduct detailed job analyses to determine job requirements. Job analysis provides the foundation for establishing the validity of selection and promotion procedures. To develop valid, defensive proce- dures that reflect the essential job functions, the job tasks, knowledge, skills, and abilities must be defined. Conducting the job analysis can be one of the most rewarding aspects of a project because the job ana- lyst is exposed to new envi- ronments and new people. To become an effective job analyst, one must be able to learn the details involved in another person’s job. This is a highlight of the process because it affords us the opportunity to visit job sites and interview incumbents. These site visits have provided us with some exciting and interesting experiences. For example, our work in the natural gas industry involved observing work performed on a drilling platform 100 miles out in the Gulf of Mexico to learn how to repair engines with 5-foot-long pistons. Similarly, interviewing workers in a manhole while they repair telephone cable provides a true understanding of why there may be occasional static on your home phone line. Each project provides new challenges to the job analyst in capturing the purpose and details associated with the job tasks. In many instances, this information is best obtained by accompanying the worker on a shift and participating in the work. To understand the work of public safety personnel, we rode with paramedics in New York City, followed firefighters into a burning building, and answered domestic dispute calls with police officers. When developing physi- cal performance assessment procedures and medical guidelines, it is important to gather information about the ergonomic parameters that affect the workplace and the worker. Ergonomics applies knowledge of human capabilities and requirements to the design of work devices, systems, and the physical work setting. Ergonomic evaluations can involve specific analysis of working postures and their effect on muscle fatigue or general gathering of data such as heights, weights, and forces involved in task per- formance. This again involves on-site measurements and observations. For instance, we obtained measurements of the force required to open the hatches and doors on Navy destroyers and in nuclear power plants. In another study, learning to climb telephone poles was necessary to obtain the ergonomic data needed to determine whether men and women used different climbing techniques. Conducting a job analysis provides an appreciation and understanding of the ingenuity of the American workforce. We observed firsthand the advances in mechanized and electronic control systems and administrative procedures that have increased productivity, made work environments more pleasant, and decreased work- related injuries. If you are conducting a job analysis, the best advice I can offer is to get involved in the process by learning as much as possible about the job. All jobs are not exciting, but for a job analyst it is important to be interested in the job and allow the incumbent to provide relevant information. This requires asking many ques- tions about the work to obtain detailed information. To do this effectively, the job analyst must be fully and genuinely engaged in the process. for a job description to be of value, it must describe a job in enough detail that decisions about activities such as selection and training can be made. Such deci- sions probably cannot be made if the description is only one page long. Th ough I/O psychologists believe that job descriptions should be detailed and lengthy, many professionals in organizations resist such eﬀ orts. Th ese professionals worry that listing each activity will limit their ability to direct employees to perform tasks not listed on the job description. Th e concern is that an employee, referring to the job description as support, might respond, “It’s not my job.” Th is fear, how- ever, can be countered with two arguments. Th e ﬁ rst is that duties can always be added to a job description, which can, and should, be updated on a regular basis. job analysis and evaluation 37 38 chapter  Th e second is that the phrase “and performs other job-related duties as assigned” should be included in the job description. In fact, Virginia Tech has a policy stating that the university can require employees to perform any duties not on the employ- ees’ job descriptions for a period not to exceed three months. After three months, the duty must either be eliminated or permanently added to the employee’s job description, at which time a review will also be made to determine if the addition is signiﬁ cant enough to merit a salary increase. Job descriptions can be written in many ways, but the format discussed here has been used successfully for many jobs and is a combination of methods used by many organizations and suggested by several researchers. A job description should contain the following eight sections: job title, brief summary, work activities, tools and equipment used, work context, performance standards, compensation infor- mation, and personal requirements. Job Title A job title is important for several reasons. An accurate title describes the nature of the job. When industrial psychologist David Faloona started a new job at Washington National Insurance in Chicago, his oﬃ cial title was “ psychometric technician.” Unfortunately, none of the other workers knew what he did. To correct that problem, his title was changed to “personnel assistant,” and supervisors then began consult- ing with him on human resources–related problems. A job analysis that I conducted provides another example. After analyzing the position of “ secretary” for one credit union, I found that her duties were actually those of a position that other credit unions labeled “loan oﬃ cer.” Th is change in title resulted in the employee’s receiving a higher salary as well as vindication that she was indeed “more than a secretary.” An accurate title also aids in employee selection and recruitment. If the job title indicates the true nature of the job, potential applicants for a position will be better able to determine whether their skills and experience match those required for the job. In the example given in the previous paragraph, applicants for a sec- retary’s job in the usual sense might not possess the lending and decision-making skills needed by a loan oﬃ cer. When conducting a job analysis, it is not unusual for an analyst to discover that some workers do not have job titles. Job titles provide workers with some form of identity. Instead of just saying that she is a “worker at the foundry,” a woman can say that she is a “welder” or a “machinist.” At most universities, students receiving ﬁ nancial aid are called “work-study students” rather than “clerks,” “computer opera- tors,” or “mail sorters.” Th is inaccurate title causes many students to think that they are supposed to study as they work rather than sort mail or operate a computer. Job titles can also aﬀ ect perceptions of the status and worth of a job. For example, job descriptions containing gender-neutral titles such as “administra- tive assistant” are evaluated as being worth more money than ones containing titles with a female sex linkage such as “executive secretary” (Naughton, ). As another example, Smith, Hornsby, Benson, and Wesolowski () had subjects read identical job descriptions that diﬀ ered only in the status of the title. Jobs with higher-status titles were evaluated as being worth more money than jobs with lower-status titles. Some authors, however, have questioned the gender eﬀ ects associated with titles (Mount & Ellis, ; Rynes, Weber, & Milkovich, ). Th ough many of the dot-com companies allow their employees to create their own titles, it is important that employees who are doing the same job have the same title and that the title accurately reﬂ ect the nature of the job (Garvey, ). Brief Summary Th e summary need be only a paragraph in length but should brieﬂ y describe the nature and purpose of the job. Th is summary can be used in help-wanted adver- tisements, internal job postings, and company brochures. Work Activities Th e work-activities section lists the tasks and activities in which the worker is involved. Th ese tasks and activities should be organized into meaningful catego- ries to make the job description easy to read and understand. Th e category labels are also convenient to use in the brief summary. As you can see in the sample job description in Table ., the  work activities performed by the bookkeeper are divided into seven main areas: accounting, clerical, teller, share draft, collections, payroll, and ﬁ nancial operations. Tools and Equipment Used A section should be included that lists all the tools and equipment used to per- form the work activities in the previous section. Even though tools and equip- ment may
