---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1faa9ed54e282e61a62804e04e2fee1820ef71ff
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
## Fired Separated Canned Given the boot RIFfed (Reduction in Force) Another strategy that can be taken at this stage is to encourage employ- ees to change careers and then help these employees learn the skills needed to make the career change. An excellent example of this strategy, called the Alliance for Employee Development and Growth, was developed in the s as a joint venture between AT&T and its union, the CWA (Communication Workers of America). In the s and s, AT&T realized that it would need to lay off many of its employees. To reduce the number of layoffs, the Alliance was cre- ated to encourage employees to look at their future, decide whether they would be happier in another career, and then take steps toward changing careers. To help this change, the Alliance provided current employees with $, per year to take classes or receive training in any legitimate career area. Thus, an assem- bly line worker could receive funding to learn to be a cosmetologist, a paralegal, or a computer programmer. Though the Alliance cost AT&T about $ million per year, the money was easily recovered in decreased downsizing costs when employees left voluntarily, or increased productivity resulting from a better- trained workforce. A fourth strategy for reducing the need for layoffs is to offer early retirement packages. The idea here is to make it financially worthwhile for an employee to retire earlier than planned. For example, in , Eastman Chemical Com- pany in Kingsport, Tennessee, offered employees two weeks of severance pay for each year of service with the company. Employees taking advantage of the early retirement option also received extended insurance coverage and outplacement assistance. Though early retirement programs are expensive during the first few years, they can save a tremendous amount of money. A drawback to early retirement packages is that only %–% of eligible employees agree to take early retire- ment (Wyatt Company, ). A fifth option to layoffs is to ask employees to take pay cuts or defer salary increases (Dyekman & Susseles, ). This strategy is based on the idea that most economic recessions last less than a year. If an organization lays off a sig- nificant number of its employees, it can take years to get production back to nor- mal when the economy recovers. To get employees to agree to a pay cut, many organizations offer them company stock worth more than the pay cut. When the economy recovers, the employees are financially better off and the company has employees who are more committed to the success of the organization. As you can imagine, employees aren’t keen on being asked to take pay cuts. Over the past few years, the airline industry asked employees to take pay cuts so that the airlines could survive. Though employees at most airlines agreed, the mechanics at Northwest Airlines went on strike rather than take lower pay, and some airline employees who accepted the salary reduction took it out on passengers by dis- playing a surly attitude. A final strategy involves adjusting work schedules. Many organizations try to avoid layoffs by restricting overtime, implementing job sharing, encouraging employees to work at home, implementing payless holidays or a shortened work- week, and reducing their employees’ pay. Employees can also reduce the effect of downsizing by monitoring their organization’s economic health. According to Beyer, Pike, and McGovern (), signs of possible trouble include use of any of the workforce reduction strategies previously mentioned, rumors of corporate acquisitions or mergers, loss of a major contract, and increases in the number of “secret” managerial meetings. organization development 537 538 chapter  Beyer et al. also advised employees to take stock of their personal standing at work to help determine their vulnerability to being laid off. Here are some impor- tant questions employees should ask themselves: 7 7 7 7 Have I kept up with the latest changes in technology? Have I changed with the times? Have I received excellent performance appraisals? Do I actually make a contribution to the organization? Do I have a lot of downtime in which I do nothing? Do I hate my job? Does my dissatisfaction show? Does it affect my performance? Am I well liked? Do others, especially my manager, include me in both trivial and important decisions? Have I kept a good enough attitude that it would be emotionally difficult for my boss to get rid of me? Selecting the Employees to Be Laid Off Should the above measures not be sufficient and a layoff becomes necessary, the next step is to choose which employees will leave the organization. Crite- ria used to make this decision might include seniority, performance, salary level, and organizational need. To reduce the chances of legal problems, the committee deciding which employees will leave should be diverse in terms of race, sex, and age (Segal, ). The committee’s decisions should be analyzed to determine potential adverse impact against protected classes (e.g., race, sex) or intentional discrimination against older workers. The Announcement The way in which the layoff is announced can affect the success of future pro- grams designed to help employees. Layoff announcements are best done in per- son. Some organizations opt for a general announcement, whereas others prefer that supervisors notify their employees on a one-to-one basis. At this time, it is essential that employees receive concrete information. A mistake made by many organizations is to announce a downsizing but not to have answers to the hun- dreds of employee questions and concerns that are bound to follow. Employees need answers to questions like these: 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 Why are the layoffs needed? Isn’t there any alternative? When will the layoffs take place? Who will be laid off? What type of financial assistance will be available? Will we get help writing our résumés? How will this affect my pension? When answers to employees’ questions are not available, employees become anxious, angry, and resentful and tend to develop their own answers (rumors). Outplacement Programs To help layoff victims move on with their lives, many organizations have some type of outplacement program (Juergens, ). These programs typically include emotional counseling, financial counseling, career assessment and guidance, and job search training. Emotional Counseling. After receiving word of being laid off, employees go through four stages that are similar to the stages of change: denial, anger, fear, and accep- tance. In the denial stage, employees deny that a layoff will actually occur. They make statements like “I’m sure the company will come to its senses,” “There is no way they will actually lay off a person with my seniority,” and “This can’t be hap- pening.” For some employees, this stage will last a few hours; for others, it can last until the minute they are no longer working. When employees are in the denial stage, they will not participate in the efforts to help them (e.g., help with résumé writing or interview skills) because they don’t see a need to participate in some- thing that is not going to happen. In the anger stage, employees realize that they will be losing their jobs, and they become angry at the organization, their supervisors, and even their cowork- ers, especially those who will not be losing their jobs. At this stage it is important that employees be given an appropriate avenue through which to vent their anger and frustration. It is not uncommon to have “support groups” for layoff victims, and the first few meetings of these groups are usually spent venting. After the anger has subsided, employees move to the fear stage. During this third stage, employees start to worry about how they are going to pay bills, feed their families, and find new jobs. At this stage, the emotional counseling moves from a listening stage to one that is more empathic and soothing. Though layoff victims remain fearful for much of the layoff period, they eventually move to the acceptance stage. At this stage, the victims accept that the layoff will occur and are now ready to take steps to secure their future. It is at this last stage that employees are ready for specific offers of assistance. Financial Counseling. As layoff victims move through the fear stage into the accep- tance stage, financial counseling is needed. They are under tremendous stress as they worry about how to make their rent, mortgage, and loan payments and how to pay for utilities, insurance, food, tuition, and medical and dental costs. Most banks and credit unions have certified financial counselors who are well trained in helping people with these concerns. The financial counseling process should include the issues of severance pay, unemployment insurance, medical insurance, and any special programs that might be available to help the layoff victims. Career Assessment and Guidance. Though many layoff victims will search for jobs similar to the ones that they left, many will need to consider other careers. Psychologists involved in this process will administer a battery of tests that tap
