# Training at Pal’s Sudden Service

322

chapter 

Application of Training Another criterion for evaluating the effectiveness of training is the degree of application of training, or the extent to which employees actually can use the learned material. Learning and memorizing new material is one thing, and apply- ing it is another. For example, if employees learn how to deal with angry custom- ers, their ability to apply this material can be measured by observing how they treat an angry customer while they are actually working. Application of train- ing is often measured though supervisor ratings or through the use of the secret shoppers discussed in Chapter .

Business Impact The fifth criterion that can be used to evaluate a training program’s effectiveness is business impact. Business impact is determined by evaluating whether the goals for training were met. For example, a restaurant such as Buffalo Wild Wings conducts a training program designed to increase sales of “top shelf” liquor. A week after the training, if sales of liquors such as Knob Creek bourbon and Abso- lut vodka increase, and sales of liquors such as Pepe Lopez tequila and Aristocrat vodka decrease, the training would be considered successful because it has had the desired business impact.

Return on Investment The sixth criterion for evaluating the success of a training program is return on investment (ROI). That is, after accounting for the cost of the training, did the organization actually save money? For example, imagine that a bank trains its tellers to cross-sell Visa cards. The tellers rate the training session as being enjoyable (employee reactions), all of the employees pass a test on sales techniques ( knowledge), and sales attempts increase by % (application). The ROI approach would then ask, “If we spent $, training the tellers, how much more revenue was brought in as a result of the training?” If the answer to the question is more than the amount spent on training, then the program would be considered a success. For example, Parry () demonstrated that training employees how to conduct effective meetings at Southwest Industries cost $, to implement but saved the organization $, in the first year after the training. To apply what you have learned about evaluating training programs, complete Exercises . and . in your workbook.