---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b646bd9413d87ec57f5bb81b1c1dc398e00d0728
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# Training and Development Journal good sources of ideas but terrible sources to use in support of a scientific hypoth- esis. Magazine articles are often written by professional writers who do not have training in the topic and thus little expertise in what they are writing about. As a result, the “scientific” information in magazines is often wrong. An increasingly popular source of information is the Internet. As most of you have already discovered, the Internet contains a wealth of information on just about every topic. As useful as the Internet is, a word of caution is in order. There is no review of information placed on the Internet to ensure that it is accurate. For example, I recently was involved with a project in which we were trying to profile the people who were setting off church fires. Because our first step was to get a list of church fires, we searched the Internet and found three webpages on church burnings. One was from USA Today and had a rather complete listing of church burnings, one was from a left-wing group, and the other was from a right-wing group. As you can imagine, the left- and right-wing pages listed only churches that confirmed their hypotheses about why the churches were burned. Had we used only one of these webpages, we would have made an inaccurate profile. A problem with relying on secondary sources such as the Internet is that one cannot be sure if the information in a secondary source accurately reflects the information in the primary source. In the field of psychology, two excellent exam- ples of this lack of accuracy are the use of the “little Albert” story to demonstrate the role of classical conditioning in learning phobias and the use of the Kitty Genovese story to demonstrate the lack of bystander intervention. In reviews of the accuracy of textbook information, Harris () found many errors in the secondary accounts of little Albert as did Manning, Levine, and Collins () with what really happened to Kitty Genovese. For example, whereas Harris () found that two texts indicated little Albert was conditioned to fear a rabbit rather 18 chapter  than a rat, many texts incorrectly included such postconditioning stimuli as a teddy bear; a white furry glove, a fur pelt, a cat, and Albert’s aunt; and three texts described how Watson removed little Albert’s fear of the rat although no such reconditioning was actually done. Manning and her colleagues () compared the myth of the attack on Genovese to what actually happened and found numerous discrepancies between the story and reality. For example, most textbooks as well as an early newspaper article mention the  witnesses who saw the attack yet did nothing to help. Not only is there no evidence that there were  eyewitnesses, but there is evidence that at least two of the witnesses took action and called the police. The Location of the Study Once a research idea has been created and a hypothesis formed, you must decide whether to conduct the study in the laboratory or in the field. Laboratory Research. Often when one hears the word research, the first thing that comes to mind is an experimenter in a white coat running subjects in a basement laboratory. Few experimenters actually wear white coats, but % of I/O psychol- ogy research is conducted in a laboratory (Roch, ). Usually, this is done at a university, but research is also conducted in such organizations as AT&T, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, and Microsoft. One disadvantage of laboratory research is external validity, or generaliz- ability of results to organizations in the “real world.” An example of this issue involves research about employee selection methods. It is not uncommon in such research for subjects to view a résumé or a videotape of an interview and make a judgment about a hypothetical applicant. The problem: Is the situation similar enough to actual employment decisions made in the real world, or is the laboratory environment so controlled and hypothetical that the results will not generalize? Although the answers to these questions have not been resolved, research is often conducted in laboratories because researchers can control many variables that are not of interest in the study. Field Research. Another location for research is away from the laboratory and out in the “field,” which could be the assembly line of an automotive plant, the secretarial pool of a large insurance company, or the interviewing room at a personnel agency. Field research has a problem opposite to that of laboratory research. What field research obviously gains in external validity it loses in control of extraneous vari- ables that are not of interest to the researcher (internal validity). Does the location of a study make a difference? It can. A meta-analysis by Avolio et al. () found that leadership training was more effective in laboratory studies than in field studies and Gordon and Arvey () found that age bias was stronger in laboratory settings than in field settings. However, in studies of teams, group cohesion (Mullen & Copper, ) and group personality composition (Bell, ) were related to performance more in field studies of real groups than in laboratory studies of groups created for the experiment. Field research also provides researchers with an ethical dilemma. Psycholo- gists require that subjects participate in studies of their own free will—a concept called informed consent. In laboratory studies, informed consent is seldom an issue because potential subjects are told the nature and purpose of a study, their right to decline participation or withdraw from participation, the risks and benefits of participating, limits of confidentiality, and who they can contact introduction to i/o psychology 19 20 chapter  with questions (Salkind, ). They are then asked to sign an informed consent form indicating that they understand their rights as subjects and have chosen to voluntarily participate. In field studies, however, obtaining informed consent can not only be difficult but change the way people behave. For example, suppose we think that making a supervisor’s office more pleasant looking will increase the number of employees who visit the supervisor’s office. After decorating five supervisors’ offices with plants and paintings and making five other supervisors’ offices look messy and cold, we use a video camera to record the number of office visitors. Would the results of our study be affected if we told our employees that they were going to be part of a study? Probably so. On the basis of our ethical guidelines, informed consent can be waived only when the research involves minimal risk to the participants, the waiver will not adversely affect the rights of the participants, and the research could not be carried out without the waiver (Ilgen & Bell, a). When studies involve negative consequences for a subject, as would be the case if we subjected employees to intense heat to study the effects of temperature, informed consent can be waived only if the importance of the study outweighs the negative consequences. Universities have institutional review boards to monitor research to ensure ethical treatment of research participants. One area to which these review boards pay close attention is confidentiality. Because the data collected in research can be of a sensitive nature (e.g., performance ratings, salaries, test scores), researchers ensure confidentiality by using subject ID numbers rather than names and avoiding discussion of individual partici- pants. Interestingly, authors of studies conducted in organizations submitted their research plans to institutional review boards only % of the time (Ilgen & Bell, b). The Research Method to Be Used After deciding the location for the research, the researcher must determine which type of research method to use. The choices include experiments, quasi- experiments, archival research, observations, surveys, and meta-analyses. Experiments. As you might recall from your general psychology course, the experi- mental method is the most powerful of all research methods because it is the only one that can determine cause-and-effect relationships. Thus, if it is important to know whether one variable produces or causes another variable to change, then the experiment is the only method that should be used. Two characteristics define an experiment: () manipulation of one or more independent variables and () random assignment of subjects to experimental and control conditions. If either of these characteristics is missing, a research project cannot be called an experiment; instead, it is called a quasi-experiment, a study, a survey, or an investigation. In an experiment, the researcher intentionally manipulates one or more aspects of the question of interest, called the independent variable, and measures the changes that occur as a result of that manipulation, called the dependent variable. For example, as shown in Table ., a researcher might randomly assign  employees to receive customer service training and  employees to receive no training. Following the training program, the researcher looks at the change in customer spending. In this example, training is the independent variable (what was manipulated), and customer spending is the dependent variable (what
