# Stress Defined

556

chapter 

A factor that influences your behavior and thus your relations with others at

work is stress: Over % of workers in the United States consider their jobs to be stressful (Smith, a). Not only does stress affect your interpersonal style, it can have serious health implications if ignored and not properly man- aged. To properly manage stress, you must first identify and understand what causes your stress and then learn ways to handle it. This chapter will identify some of the sources of stress and suggest ways for successfully dealing with it.

Though psychologists cannot agree on one definition for the word stress (Greenberg, ; Sulsky & Smith, ), it will be defined for the purpose of this chapter as the psychological and physical reaction to certain life events or sit- uations. The stress process begins with life events or situations that cause stress. These life events are called stressors and include such things as weddings, job interviews, dentist appointments, basketball games, deadlines, and traffic jams. If we perceive these events as being stressful, our bodies respond in many ways, including elevated blood pressure, increased heart rate, muscle tension, and perspiration. These reactions are called stress reactivity. If these physical reac- tions occur for periods longer than our body can tolerate, negative physical and psychological consequences can occur (Greenberg, ). These consequences are called strains.

As you may have already discovered in your life, an event that is a stressor to you may not be stressful to another person. For example, a human resource (HR) director told me a story about an applicant going through what the interview panel had designed to be a stress interview. They grilled the applicant for two hours on such topics as statistical analysis, employment laws, and job analysis. Toward the end of the interview, one panel member asked the applicant, “Are you enjoying this?” To which the applicant replied, “This is fun. We’re not through, are we?” The response stunned the panel because previous applicants had reacted to the interview by shaking, crying, and perspiring. This applicant smiled the entire time. What does the story demonstrate? Contrary to popular belief, not all stress is bad.

Eustress (from the root eu-, meaning something that is proper) occurs when stressors result in feelings of challenge or achievement—the feelings of stress get converted into positive energy and actually become motivating. You might say it is a desirable outcome of stress. An example of positive stress is the anxiety you feel before taking a test. If you felt no anxiety at all, you might not have the moti- vation and energy to spend the necessary time studying for the exam. Thus, some stress in this situation is probably helpful. However, if you are too stressed, your performance will decline. This is what is known as the optimal level of arousal, or inverted-U theory. As shown in Figure ., according to the inverted-U theory, having little arousal or too much arousal results in poor performance, whereas a moderate level results in the highest levels of performance (Muse, Harris, & Field, ). Of course, the optimal level of arousal is different for each person.