# Passing Scores

Passing scores are a means for reducing adverse impact and increasing flexibility. With this system, an organization determines the lowest score on a test that is asso- ciated with acceptable performance on the job. For example, we know that a student scoring , on the SAT will probably have better grades in college than a student scoring . But, what is the lowest score on the SAT that we can accept and still be confident that the student will be able to pass classes and eventually graduate?

Notice the distinct difference between top-down selection and passing scores. With top-down selection, the question is, “Who will perform the best in the future?” With passing scores, the question becomes, “Who will be able to perform at an acceptable level in the future?”

As you can imagine, passing scores provide an organization with much flex- ibility. Again using Table . as an example, suppose we determine that any appli- cant scoring  or above will be able to perform adequately the duties of the job in question. If we set  as the passing score, we can fill our four openings with any of the eight applicants scoring  or better. Because, for affirmative action reasons, we would like two of the four openings to be filled by females, we are free to hire Winfrey and O’Donnell. Use of passing scores allows us to reach our affir- mative action goals, which would not have been met with top-down selection. By hiring applicants with lower scores, however, the performance of our future employees will be lower than if we used top-down selection (Schmidt, ).

Though the use of passing scores appears to be a reasonable step toward reaching affirmative action goals, determining the actual passing score can be a complicated process full of legal pitfalls (Biddle, ). The most common methods for determining passing scores (e.g., the Angoff and Nedelsky methods) require job experts to read each item on a test and provide an estimation about the percentage of minimally qualified employees that could answer the item cor- rectly. The passing score then becomes the average of the estimations for each question. Legal problems can occur when unsuccessful applicants challenge the validity of the passing score.

If there is more than one test for which we have passing scores, a deci- sion must be made regarding the use of a multiple-cutoff or a multiple-hurdle approach. Both approaches are used when one score can’t compensate for another or when the relationship between the selection test and performance is not linear. With a multiple-cutoff approach, the applicants would be administered all of the tests at one time. If they failed any of the tests (fell below the passing score), they would not be considered further for employment.

For example, suppose that our job analysis finds that a good police officer is intelligent, has a college degree, is confident, can lift  pounds, and does not have a criminal record. Our validity study indicates that the relationships of both intelligence and confidence with job performance are linear: The smarter and more confident the officer, the better he or she performs. Because the relation- ships between strength, not having a criminal record, and having a college degree are not linear, we would use a multiple-cutoff approach in which applicants would need to pass the background check, have a college degree, and be able to

lift  pounds. If they meet all three requirements, their confidence levels and cognitive ability test scores are used to determine who will be hired.

One problem with a multiple-cutoff approach is the cost. If an applicant passes only three out of four tests, he will not be hired, but the organization has paid for the applicant to take all four tests.

To reduce the costs associated with applicants failing one or more tests, multiple-hurdle approaches are often used. With a multiple-hurdle approach, the applicant is administered one test at a time, usually beginning with the least expensive. Applicants who fail a test are eliminated from further consideration and take no more tests. Applicants who pass all of the tests are then administered the linearly related tests; the applicants with the top scores on these tests are hired.

To clarify the difference between a multiple-cutoff and a multiple-hurdle approach, let us look at the following example. Suppose we will use four pass/fail tests to select employees. The tests have the following costs and failure rates: