---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3dbc585abcc12b183fee67e2b18c57cf11b2fe0d
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
made by employees of diﬀ erent performance levels. If higher performing employees generate diﬀ erent job analysis results than lower performing employees, a tough decision must be made regarding which employees to include in the job analysis. On the one hand, it would be nice to include a representative sample of employees. On the other hand, do we really want to write a job description and select future employees on the basis of how poorly performing employees do their jobs? Race. Aamodt, Kimbrough, Keller, and Crawford (), Schmitt and Cohen (), Veres, Green, and Boyles (), and Landy and Vasey () report small but sig- niﬁ cant diﬀ erences in the ways in which white and African American incumbents viewed their jobs. For example, Landy and Vasey found that white police oﬃ - cers administered ﬁ rst aid more often and African American oﬃ cers were more involved in sweeps and raids related to widespread narcotics use. Interestingly, Veres et al. () found that job analysis ratings were related not only to the race of the incumbent but to the race of the incumbent’s coworkers. Gender. Landy and Vasey () found possible diﬀ erences in the ways men and women viewed their jobs. Because gender was confounded with experience, they were not able to draw any deﬁ nite conclusions. Schmitt and Cohen () found that male middle-level managers were more often involved in budgetary or ﬁ nance-related tasks than were their female counterparts. Ansoorian and Schultz () found no diﬀ erences in the physical-eﬀ ort ratings assigned by male and female incumbents. Education Level. Landy and Vasey () found that police oﬃ cers with only a high school diploma were less involved in court activities than were their more edu- cated counterparts. Personality. Cucina, Vasilopoulos, and Sehgal () found that the personality of the incumbent was related to the personality traits rated by the incumbent to be important to the job. Th at is, extroverted incumbents rated such traits as friend- liness, leadership ability, and ambition as being important for the job whereas conscientious incumbents rated such traits as work ethic and attention to detail as being important. Similarly, Ford, Truxillo, Wang, & Bauer () found that extroverts and people high in agreeableness were likely to inﬂ ate task and KSAO ratings. Viewpoint. It should be no surprise that people with diﬀ erent perspectives on the job (e.g., incumbent, supervisor, customer) produce diﬀ erent job analysis results. For example, Mueller and Belcher () found that incumbents (ﬁ re captains) and their supervisors (ﬁ re chief, deputy ﬁ re chiefs, and division chiefs) produced diﬀ erent task ratings during a job analysis of the ﬁ re captain position. Truxillo, Paronto, Collins, and Sulzer () found diﬀ erences in ratings provided by police oﬃ cers and district attorneys of the criticality of diﬀ erent aspects of report writing for reports written by police oﬃ cers. Wagner () conducted a job analysis of dentists and found that patients generated more incidents where patient–dentist relationship was critical, whereas dentists reported more technical-proﬁ ciency incidents. Likewise, Fisher and Greenis () and Andersson and Nilsson () found diﬀ erences in the critical incidents generated by managers, incumbents, and customers. job analysis and evaluation 45 46 chapter  Th e consideration of which employees are chosen to participate is an impor- tant issue because a job can often be performed in several ways. If males and females perform equally well on a job, yet perform the job in diﬀ erent ways, the job analyses must contain information about both styles. For example, suppose research indicates that male supervisors lead by setting goals and being direc- tive and female supervisors use more of a participative approach. Consequently, a job analysis conducted only on male supervisors would result in a diﬀ erent set of KSAOs than a job analysis using both male and female supervisors. Because job analysis is the basis for every personnel decision, it can be seen that equal opportunity eﬀ orts begin as early as the job analysis. Th e issue of using the best employees or the typical employees is also impor- tant. During a job analysis at a large printing factory, it was discovered that one employee performed his job diﬀ erently from the employees on the other two shifts. Further investigation revealed that the one employee was also rated much higher in job performance than the other two. Th us, it appeared that the logical thing to do was write the job analysis results based on the way the best employee performed the job and then retrain the other two. What Types of Information Should Be Obtained? An important decision concerns the level of speciﬁ city. Th at is, should the job analysis break a job down into very minute, speciﬁ c behaviors (e.g., “tilts arm at a -degree angle” or “moves foot forward three inches”), or should the job be analyzed at a more general level (“makes ﬁ nancial decisions,” “speaks to clients”)? Although most jobs are analyzed at levels somewhere between these two extremes, there are times when the level of analysis will be closer to one end of the spectrum than the other. For some jobs that involve intricate work, extensive and expensive eﬀ orts have been undertaken to identify the optimal way in which tasks should be per- formed. For example, in a window manufacturing plant, job analysis determined that many more windows could be mounted in frames by lifting the glass just six inches and then sliding it into place, than by lifting the glass higher and placing it in the frame. In such a situation, the work obviously must be performed in a speciﬁ c manner for the greatest ﬁ nancial savings. Th us, the job analysis is more eﬀ ective at a more detailed level. A related decision addresses the issue of formal versus informal require- ments. Formal requirements for a secretary might include typing letters or ﬁ ling memos. Informal requirements might involve making coﬀ ee or picking up the boss’s children from school. Including informal requirements has the advantages of identifying and eliminating duties that may be illegal or unnecessary. For example, suppose a job analysis reveals that a secretary in one department picks up the boss’s children from school and takes them to a day-care center. Th is is an important ﬁ nding because the company may not want this to occur. However, because the manager makes $, per year, the company may prefer that the lower-paid secretary rather than the higher-paid executive take an hour a day to pick up the children. If this task is in the job description, an applicant will know about this duty in advance and can decide at the time of hire whether it is acceptable. In addition, informal requirements (e.g., picking up mail) may need to be made more formal to reduce potential confusion regarding who is responsi- ble for the task. At one credit union, a continued source of bickering involved whose job or whose turn it was to pick up the mail, especially when the weather Some jobs require tremendous attention to detail. was bad and post oﬃ ce parking became limited. Th is problem could have been eliminated if the task were assigned to one individual.
