---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a77ad0c6780bf6c19be6fee8c7c1dc8e9bf4e955
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# Distribution Errors

A common type of error in evaluating employee performance involves the distribution of ratings on a rating scale; such errors are known as distribution errors. Distribution errors are made when a rater uses only one part of a rating scale. For example, on a five-point scale, a supervisor might rate all of her employ- ees a  or a . One kind of distribution error is called leniency error, because certain raters tend to rate every employee at the upper end of the scale regardless of the actual performance of the employee. For example, on our five-point scale, the supervisor rates everyone a  or . Leniency error can in part be explained by the discomfort felt by supervisors about giving low ratings. That is, supervi- sors who are uncomfortable about how employees react to a low rating are more likely to be lenient than supervisors who are comfortable with negative employee reactions (Canali et al., ). Another partial explanation for leniency is that supervisors don’t really know the difference between good and bad performance, so they err on the positive side.

A related error is central tendency error, which results in a supervisor rating every employee in the middle of the scale. For example, in our five-point scale, the supervisor rates everyone a . Still another error, strictness error, rates every employee at the low end of the scale. For example, on our five-point scale, our supervisor rates everyone a  or . You have probably encountered such errors in your academic career when you took classes from “easy graders” or “hard graders.” These types of errors pose problems for an organization because two employ- ees doing equal work will receive different ratings if one employee is supervised by a lenient rater and another by a strict rater. This problem can be partially eliminated by having several people rate each employee, although this is not often feasible, especially in small branch offices with only one manager or supervisor.
