---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4eb1961a2a3442d6749bb2460748f0680893b903
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
an employee (Cooper, a; Feldman, ; Martell, Guzzo, & Willis, ), and the greater the time interval between the actual behavior and the perfor- mance rating, the greater the probability that rating errors will occur (Murphy, Martin, & Garcia, ; Nathan & Lord, ). Furthermore, raters who are familiar with the job being evaluated recall more judgments about performance but fewer behaviors than do raters who are unfamiliar with the job (Harriman & Kovach, ; Hauenstein, ). The decrease in memory accuracy over time can be reduced if several raters, rather than one, are used to evaluate perfor- mance (Martell & Borg, ). But even though memory-based ratings lead to more distortion, in many circumstances they are more accurate than ratings made immediately after the behaviors occur (Murphy & Balzer, ). The reason for these increases in halo and accuracy is not yet clear. Supervisors perhaps realize that it will be a long interval between observation of employee behavior and the formal evaluation of that behavior and that they will not be able (without great effort or the use of log books) to remember specific behaviors. Thus, they form an overall impression of the employee and an overall impression of an ideal and a poor employee and evaluate the employee based on comparison with the ideal. Emotional State. The amount of stress under which a supervisor operates also affects her performance ratings. Srinivas and Motowidlo () found that raters who were placed in a stressful situation produced ratings with more errors than did Figure 7.15 Factors aff ecting information loss Observed behavior Logbooks used to record observed behavior result in more accurate performance appraisals than reliance on memory alone (Bernardin & Walter, 1977). Logbooks organized by employee will be more accurate than random recordings or logbooks organized by dimension (DeNisi, Robbins, & Cafferty, 1989; DeNisi & Peters, 1996). Behavior placed in memory Behavior processed Raters knowledgeable about the job recall more judgments about performance but fewer behaviors than do raters unfamiliar with the job (Hauenstein, 1986). Raters recall behavior consistent with their general impression (schema) of the employee (Cooper, 1981a, 1981b; Feldman, 1981). Behavior recalled Training raters will increase accuracy (Smither, Barry, & Reilly, 1989). The longer the interval between actual behavior and ratings of the behavior, the greater the halo errors (Nathan & Lord, 1983) and distortion errors (Murphy, Martin, & Garcia, 1982).
