# I

y t t e G / c s i D o t o h P / k n i L o t o h P ©

Supervisor Behavior Another approach to increasing employee self-esteem is to train supervisors to communicate a feeling of confidence in an employee. The idea here is that if an employee feels that a manager has confidence in him, his self-esteem will increase, as will his performance. Such a process is known as the Pygmalion effect and has been demonstrated in situations as varied as elementary school classrooms, the workplace, courtrooms, and the military (Rosenthal, ). The Pygmalion effect has been portrayed in several motion pictures, such as My Fair Lady and Trading Places. In contrast, the Golem effect occurs when negative expectations of an individual cause a decrease in that individual’s actual performance (Babad, Inbar, & Rosenthal, ; Davidson & Eden, ).

Two meta-analyses have shown that the Pygmalion effect greatly influences performance. The meta-analysis by McNatt () found an overall effect size of ., and the meta-analysis by Kierein and Gold () found an overall effect size of .. If you recall the discussion in Chapter , effect sizes of this mag- nitude are considered to be very large. The Pygmalion and Golem effects can be explained by the idea that our expectations of others’ performance lead us to treat them differently (Rosenthal, ). That is, if we think someone will do a poor job, we will probably treat that person in ways that bring about that result. If

a supervisor thinks an employee is intrinsically motivated, he treats the employee in a less controlling way. The result of this treatment is that the employee actu- ally becomes more intrinsically motivated (Pelletier & Vallerand, ). Thus, when an employee becomes aware of others’ expectations and matches his own with them, he will perform in a manner that is consistent with those expectations (Oz & Eden, ; Tierney, ).

Sandler () argued that our expectations are communicated to employees through such nonverbal cues as head tilting or eyebrow raising and through more overt behaviors such as providing low-expectation employees with less feedback, worse facilities, and less praise than high-expectation employees. He also stated that employees are quick to pick up on these cues. Along with Korman () and Rosenthal (), Sandler argued that employees then adjust their behaviors to be consistent with our expectations and in a way that is self-sustaining.

Though we know that the Pygmalion effect is true, efforts to teach supervi- sors to communicate positive expectations have not been successful. On the basis of seven field experiments, Eden () concluded that there was little support for the notion that teaching the “Pygmalion leadership style” would change the way supervisors treated their employees and thus increase employee self-esteem. Given that consistency theory does have some reasonable research support, the next concern is how it can be used to increase employee performance. If employees do indeed respond to their managers’ expectations, then it becomes reasonable to predict that managers who communicate positive and optimistic feelings to their employees will lead employees to perform at higher levels. A good example of such management behavior can be found in a study that increased the self-expectations of a group of auditors employed in four accounting firms (McNatt & Judge, ). Half of the new auditors (the experimental group) interviewed with a company representative who told them that they had been selected from a competitive applicant pool, praised them for being highly skilled, and reminded them of their previous accomplishments. The other half of the new auditors (the control group) did not receive this information. The results of the study indi- cated that the positive interview increased self-efficacy levels, motivation, and job performance, although the effect on performance went away after  months. To determine your level of self-esteem, complete Exercise . in your workbook.