data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk0680.md, before:

# Filing a Discrimination Charge

As shown in Figure ., a charge of discrimination is usually filed with a govern- ment agency. A state agency is used if the alleged violation involves a state law; and a federal agency, usually the EEOC, handles alleged violations of federal law. An EEOC complaint must be filed within  days of the discriminatory act, but within  days if the complainant has already filed a complaint with a state or local fair-employment practice agency. The government agency will try to notify the employer within  days about the complaint, obtain further information from both parties if necessary, and review the charge to determine whether it has merit.

Outcomes of an EEOC Investigation Charge Does Not Have Merit If, after reviewing a complaint, the governmental agency does not find merit, one of two things can happen based on whether the person filing the complaint accepts the decision. If the complainant accepts the decision, the process ends. If the complainant does not accept the decision, he is issued a “right to sue” letter that entitles him to hire a private attorney and file the case himself.

Charge Has Merit If the EEOC believes that the discrimination charge has merit, it will try to work out a settlement between the claimant and employer without taking the case to court. These settlements might include an employer offering a job or promotion to the person filing the complaint, the payment of back wages, and the payment of compensatory or punitive damages. These settlements can range in size from a few dollars to more than $ million:

7

In , Coca-Cola settled a racial discrimination case for a record $. million.

s e g a m

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk0680.md, after:

---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e98f499cb7c2627d9a290b2dbd480da7611a4da7
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# S

Consider mediation to resolve the situation. This process includes a neutral third party who meets with all parties involved in the incident, as well as the HR director, to discuss how best to resolve the situation. The mediator will not decide who is right or wrong. The mediator’s goal is to help all parties consider options, other than legal options, for resolving past and future problems. Research shows that 90% of all workplace disputes that go through mediation are amicably resolved without help from the courts. This process can be less stressful than going to court and will often pre- serve workplace relationships.

If mediation is not an option and/or the organization seems unwilling to address the situation, another option is to file a complaint with the EEOC. Being discriminated against or harassed is a very upsetting experience and can cause anger, anxiety, depression, or other feelings. Even if the matter is handled amicably, you may still have some of these feelings. Consider using the organization’s employee assistance program (EAP) to talk to a counselor about your feelings. If the organization does not have an EAP, seek a counselor outside of the organization.

do not like the decision, they can then take their complaints to the EEOC. With mediation, employees and the organization meet with a neutral third party who tries to help the two sides reach a mutually agreed upon solution. If they cannot reach a solution, the complaint can be taken to arbitration or to the EEOC. The EEOC has begun to strongly recommend mediation as a solution to discrimi- nation complaints, in part because % of employers who tried mediation said they would try it again, and data indicate that the time taken to resolve a dispute through mediation is less than half that of going through more formal channels (Tyler, ).

With arbitration, the two sides present their case to a neutral third party who then makes a decision as to which side is right. Arbitration and mediation differ in that the neutral third party helps the two sides reach an agreement in mediation, whereas in arbitration, the neutral third party makes the decision. If binding arbitration is used, neither side can appeal the decision. If nonbinding arbitration is used, the parties can either accept the decision or take the case to court. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled (Circuit City Stores v. Adams, ) that the applicant or employee is not allowed to take the complaint to the EEOC or to court if an organization has a policy of mandatory arbitration.

legal issues in employee selection

77

Discrimination suits are common in organizations.

78

chapter 
