using a public restroom; % said yes. However, when researchers observed people in restrooms, less than % washed their hands (Mattox, ). Inaccurately responding to survey questions is not always an intentional attempt to be dishonest. Instead, inaccurate responses can be the result of a person not actually knowing the correct answer to a question. For example, an employee might respond to a question about attendance by stating she has missed three days of work in the past year when in fact she missed five. Was she lying, or just mistaken about her attendance record? Meta-Analysis. Meta-analysis is a statistical method of reaching conclusions based on previous research. Prior to meta-analysis, a researcher interested in reviewing the literature on a topic would read all of the available research and then make a rather subjective conclusion based on the articles. With meta-analysis, the researcher goes through each article, determines the effect size for each article, and then finds a statistical average of effect sizes across all articles. A meta- analysis results in one number, called the mean effect size, which indicates the effectiveness of some variable. Correlation coefficients (r) are used as the effect size when researchers are interested in the relationship between two variables, and the majority of studies use correlation as their statistical test. Examples include studies looking at the relationship between personality and job performance, integrity test scores and employee theft, and the relationship between job satisfaction and performance. A difference score (d) is used as the effect size when researchers are looking at the difference between two groups. Examples are studies looking at the effec- tiveness of a training method, the effect of goal setting, and the effects of shift work. Effect sizes can be interpreted in two ways: by comparing them to norms or directly applying them to a particular situation. Effect sizes (d) less than . are considered to be small; those between . and . are moderate, and those higher than . are considered large (Cohen, ). Of course, these numbers are “rules of thumb”; the actual practical significance of an effect size depends on many factors—formulas are available to be more precise. The average effect size for an organizational intervention is . (Guzzo, Jette, & Katzell, ). When directly applying an effect size to a particular situation, you need to know the standard deviation of the variable in question. This standard deviation is then multiplied by the effect size from the meta-analysis to yield a meaningful score. Confused? Perhaps an example would help. Suppose employees at a John Deere manufacturing plant miss an average of . days of work per year with a standard deviation of . days. John Deere is considering a new incentive system to improve attendance that a meta- analysis indicates has an effect size of . in reducing absenteeism. What can John Deere expect to gain from this incentive system? By multiplying their absenteeism stan- dard deviation (. days) by the effect size from the meta-analysis (.), John Deere can expect the incentive system to reduce absenteeism by an average of . days per employee (. × . = .). If the attendance data for General introduction to i/o psychology 25 26 chapter  Motors were an average of . days per year missed with a standard deviation of ., it could expect an annual reduction in absenteeism of . days per employee (. × . = .). John Deere and General Motors would each have to decide if the predicted reduction in savings is worth the cost of the incentive system. A complete discussion of meta-analysis is beyond the scope of this book and probably beyond your interest as well. It is important, however, that you be able to interpret the outcomes of meta-analyses because they are used in this text and are the current standard when reviewing previous research. Points to keep in mind as you read the text: 7 7 Because meta-analyses summarize all of the available studies on a topic, keep in mind that a reference to a meta-analysis should carry more weight than a reference to only one or two studies. When describing meta-analysis results, I will often include the effect size at the end of a sentence. For example, I might write, “References are not good predictors of performance, r = ., p = .).” The symbol r indicates the actual correlation from the meta-analysis. The symbol p, known as rho, is the correlation after it has been corrected for factors that can reduce the size of a correlation. These factors are called artifacts, and you can learn more about them in the meta-analysis chapter of the statistics primer that was written to accompany this text (Aamodt, Cohen, & Surrette, ). Rho is often referred to as the corrected correlation or the true correlation. To help you understand the various research designs you just learned about,