---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5f5b48788c2b41d4c60228d663f14de771bb57eb
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# 7 7 7 Member satisfaction (Brawley, Carron, & Widmeyer, ; Deluga & Winters, ) Member interaction (Shaw & Shaw, ) Employee courtesy (Kidwell, Mossholder, & Bennett, ) In its  strike against Pittston Coal Company, the United Mine Work- ers union realized the importance of cohesiveness and identification needs by adopting a unique strategy. Each union member as well as his or her family members and supportive friends wore camouflage shirts and fatigues as a sign of unity. Every time miners looked around, they saw others dressed alike. The union members thus developed a sense of unity and cohesiveness that helped them last through a lengthy strike. Groups such as the Boy Scouts and the Guardian Angels also wear uniforms to increase group cohesiveness. But cohesiveness can also lower group performance, especially in a work set- ting. When employees become too cohesive, they often lose sight of organiza- tional goals. For example, it is common for restaurant employees to put the needs of other employees above those of their customers. Similarly, police departments tend to be highly cohesive—so much so that anyone who is not a police officer is considered an outsider, which can make community relations difficult. Although the majority of research supports the conclusion that cohesiveness results in better group performance, it is not always necessary for ultimate group success. For example, the Oakland A’s in the early s and the Los Angeles Lakers in  were sports teams that won championships despite constant fight- ing among the players. Research has also demonstrated that employees in cohesive work groups will conform to a norm of lower production even though they are capable of higher performance (Forsyth, ). An excellent example of this conformity to a group norm involved the Hollywood Division of the Los Angeles Police Department in the early s. Many of the division’s officers and detectives were extensively involved in property crimes. They would break into various retail stores and radio that they were responding to the ringing burglar alarms. They then placed the stolen goods in their car trunks and proceeded as if they were investigating the break-ins. The officers later met at specific locations to hide and sell the stolen goods. Officers who did not participate in the crimes saw the merchandise and knew what was going on, but they did not report the offenders. Instead, they put their loyalty to their fellow officers above their loyalty to the city or the police department. Group Homogeneity The homogeneity of a group is the extent to which its members are similar. A homogeneous group contains members who are similar in some or most ways, whereas a heterogeneous group contains members who are more different than alike. Of course, the difficulty in determining the homogeneity of a group comes from the many ways in which people are different. Group members might be demographically similar (e.g., age, gender, race) but be very different in personal- ity, attitudes, values, and competencies. An important question for a leader to consider when developing a group is which composition—homogeneous or heterogeneous—will lead to the best group performance. Many research studies have sought to answer this question, but only mixed results have been found, with some studies finding homogeneous groups most effective and others finding heterogeneous groups most effective (Bowers, Pharmer, & Salas, ). group behavior, teams, and conflict 479 480 chapter  Aamodt, Kimbrough, and Alexander () hypothesized that previous research yielded mixed results because the compositions of the best- performing groups were actually somewhere between completely homogeneous and com- pletely heterogeneous. These authors labeled them slightly heterogeneous groups. For example, in a five-person group, a group with five men would be considered as homogeneous, one with three men and two women as hetero- geneous, and one with four men and one woman as slightly heterogeneous. A meta-analysis by Mascio, Rainey, and Zinda () offered some support for the superiority of slightly heterogeneous groups as slightly-heterogeneous groups performed somewhat better than did homogeneous (d = .) and heterogeneous (d = .) groups. Thus, it appears that the best working groups consist primarily of similar people but have a dissimilar person adding tension and a different vantage point. But it is not yet clear which variable is most important in terms of determining group composition. For example, a group might be homogeneous in terms of race but heterogeneous in gender. Researchers have studied race, gender, personality, intelligence, attitudes, and background, but more research is needed to clarify this issue. Meta-analyses indicate, however, that homogeneous groups result in higher member satisfaction, higher levels of communication and interaction, and lower turnover (Nolan, Lee, & Allen, ; Roberson & Colquitt, ). Although group performance is best in slightly heterogeneous groups, the group member who is “different” (e.g., the only female, the only African American, the only introvert) may not have the same level of satisfaction as the rest of the group members. In fact, in a study of more than , employees at quick-service restaurants, it was found that employees who were the statistical minority in a restaurant in terms of race, sex, or age were more likely to leave the organization than were employees who were in the statistical majority (Sacco & Schmitt, ). Stability of Membership The greater the stability of the group, the greater the cohesiveness. Thus, groups in which members remain for long periods of time are more cohesive and per- form better than groups that have high turnover (Bell, ), and groups whose members have previously worked together perform better than groups whose members are not familiar with one another (Harrison, Mohammed, McGrath, Florey, & Vanerstoep, ). A good example again can be found on a college campus. At most colleges, fraternities and sororities usually are the most active organizations and have high levels of performance; professional clubs and honorary societies such as Psi Chi and Lambda Alpha Beta tend to be the least active. Why is this? Certainly, it cannot be the abilities of the members—honorary societies have members with higher IQs than do most fraternities and sororities. Instead, the answer might be in the stability of the groups. Students tend to join Greek organizations in their freshman or sophomore years, whereas students tend to join professional clubs in their junior year and honorary societies in their senior year, often to help “pad” their résumés. The Greek organizations thus have more stable memberships than the other organizations. Isolation Physical isolation is another variable that tends to increase a group’s cohesive- ness. Groups that are isolated or located away from other groups tend to be highly cohesive. A good example is the New River Valley (Virginia) branch of the Truliant Credit Union. The credit union has  branches, most located within a few miles of one another and within a few miles of the main branch in Winston- Salem, North Carolina. The New River Valley branch is  miles from the next closest branch; physically and psychologically, the branch is isolated from the main part of the organization. The New River Valley branch, however, is the only one to have no turnover in five years, in spite of the low unemployment rate in the area. It is also the branch where the employees are most cohesive. Outside Pressure Groups that are pressured by outside forces also tend to become highly cohe- sive. To some degree, this response to outside pressure can be explained by the phenomenon of psychological reactance (Brehm, ). When we believe that someone is trying to intentionally influence us to take some particular action, we often react by doing the opposite. Consider, for example, a teenaged dating couple. As the boy arrives to pick up his date, the girl’s father notices the young man’s beard and Harley-Davidson motorcycle and forbids his daughter to go out with him. Before this order, the daughter may not have been especially interested in the boy, but after being told she cannot go on the date, she reacts by liking the boy more. An interesting example of psychological reactance comes from a study by Ruback and Juieng (), who observed drivers leaving their parking spots at a local mall. There were four conditions in the study. In the control condition, the researchers timed how long it took from the moment the driver opened her door to the moment she completely left the parking space when no other cars were present. In the distraction condition, they noted how much time was taken when a car drove past the parking space. In the low-intrusion condition, an experimenter pulled up next to the parking spot, indicating that she was waiting for the spot. In the high-intrusion condition, the waiting driver honked her horn. Consistent with psychological reactance, when a driver honked, it took . seconds for the parked driver to leave versus . seconds when there was no driver waiting for the spot (control) and . seconds when a car drove by (distraction). On a larger scale, such reactions are commonly seen in labor
