data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk1017.md, before:

# Writing a Résumé

Résumés are summaries of an applicant’s professional and educational back- ground. Although résumés are commonly requested by employers, little is known about their value in predicting employee performance. Some studies have found that when an interviewer reads a résumé before interviewing an applicant, the validity of the employment interview may actually be reduced (Dipboye, Stramler, & Fontenelle, ; Phillips & Dipboye, ). Beyond these studies, however, it is unclear how much predictive value, if any, résumés have.

Résumés may not predict performance partly because they are intended to be advertisements for an applicant. Companies that specialize in résumé design openly brag about their ability to “make your strengths more obvious and your weaknesses hard to find.” As a result, many résumés contain inaccurate information. In a review of surveys on résumé fraud, Aamodt and Williams () found that the median estimate was that % of résumés contained inaccurate information.

Contrary to popular belief, there is no one best way to write a résumé. Because people have such different backgrounds, a format that works for one individual may not work for another. Therefore, this section will provide only general advice about writing a résumé; the rest is up to you.

Views of Résumés Résumés can be viewed in one of two ways: as a history of your life or as an advertise- ment of your skills. Résumés written as a history of one’s life tend to be long and to list every job ever worked, as well as personal information such as hobbies, marital

status, and personal health. Résumés written as an advertisement of skills tend to be shorter and contain only information that is both positive and relevant to a job seeker’s desired career. This latter view of résumés is the most commonly held today.

Characteristics of Eff ective Résumés One of the most frustrating aspects of writing a résumé is that asking  people for advice results in  different opinions. However, though there are many preferences, there are really only three rules that must be followed in writing résumés:

. The résumé must be attractive and easy to read. To achieve this,

try to leave at least a -inch margin on all sides, and allow plenty of white space; that is, do not “pack” information into the résumé. An undergraduate student of mine came to me with the “great idea” of typing his résumé onto a legal-sized sheet and then using a photocopy machine to reduce the size to regular paper with a -inch margin. Although this technique may look nice, it is probably not advisable because you are still “packing” information into a small space, and personnel directors do not spend much time reading résumés. A résumé can have great content, but if the “package” is not attractive, few employers will want to read it. This rule is hardly surprising, as physical attractiveness provides a first impression for many activities, such as interviewing, dating, and purchasing products. White is probably the best paper color, as it scans, copies, and faxes more clearly than other colors.

. The résumé cannot contain typing, spelling, grammatical, or factual

mistakes. When Walter Pierce, Jr., was a personnel officer for Norfolk Southern Corporation, his boss received a résumé from an excellent applicant who was applying for a job as a computer programmer. Even though the applicant had outstanding credentials, the personnel director would not even offer him an interview, because the applicant had misspelled two words on his résumé. A similar story is told by Dick Williams, general manager of N & W Credit Union. He once received two cover letters stapled together—both referring to the résumé that wasn’t there. To make matters worse, four words were misspelled. I could tell you more horror stories, but the point should be clear: Do not make any careless mistakes!

. The résumé should make the applicant look as qualified as possible—

without lying. This is an important rule in determining what information should be included. If including hobbies, summer jobs, and lists of courses will make you look more qualified for this particular job, then by all means, include them.

If a résumé follows the above three rules—it looks nice, it doesn’t contain mistakes, and it makes the applicant look as good as possible—then it is an effective résumé. Opinions to the contrary (such as “use boldface type instead of underlining” or “outline your duties instead of putting them in a paragraph”) probably represent differences in individual preferences rather than any major problem with the résumé.

Types of Résumé There are three main types of résumé: chronological, functional, and psychological. As shown in Figure ., chronological résumés list previous jobs in order from the most to the least recent. This type of résumé is useful for applicants whose

employee selection: recruiting and interviewing

149

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk1017.md, after:

---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1eaadfebbbb1418fdc993f0f6e358ec04d7da587
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# cover letters:

7

7

7

7

7

7

Avoid sounding desperate and don’t beg (I really need a job bad! Please please please hire me!). Avoid grammar and spelling errors. Employers view cover letters and résumés as examples of the best work applicants can produce. If your cover letter contains errors, an employer will be concerned about the quality of your regular work. Avoid officious words or phrases. Don’t use a -cent word when a nickel word will do. Not only will employers be unimpressed by a large vocabulary, but applicants using “big words” often misuse them. As an example, one applicant tried to describe his work productivity by saying that his writings were “voluptuous,” rather than “voluminous,” as we think he meant to say. Don’t discuss personal circumstances such as “I find myself looking for a job because I am recently divorced.” Employers are interested in only your qualifications. If possible, tailor your letter to each company. Standard cover letters are efficient but not as effective as those written specifically for each job you are applying for. Don’t write your cover letter on the stationery of your current employer. Ensure that you have used the correct name of the organization throughout the letter. It is not uncommon when sending out large numbers of cover letters to change the company name in the address but forget to change it in the body of the letter.
