# Cost-eﬃ ciency

If two or more tests have similar validities, then cost should be considered. For example, in selecting police officers, it is common to use a test of cognitive abil- ity such as the Wonderlic Personnel Test or the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS). Both tests have similar reliabilities and validities, yet the Wonderlic costs only a few dollars per applicant and can be administered to groups of people in only  minutes. The WAIS must be administered individually at a time cost of at least an hour per applicant and a financial cost of more than $ per applicant. Given the similar validities, it doesn’t take a rocket scientist (or an I/O psychologist) to figure out which is the better deal. In situations that are not so clear, the utility for- mula discussed later in this chapter can be used to determine the best test.

A particular test is usually designed to be administered either to individual applicants or to a group of applicants. Certainly, group testing is usually less expensive and more efficient than individual testing, although important infor- mation may be lost in group testing. For example, one reason for administering an individual intelligence test is to observe the way in which a person solves a problem or answers a question. With group tests, only the answer can be scored. A recent innovation in the administration of psychological tests involves the use of computers and the Internet. With computer-assisted testing, an applicant takes a test at a computer terminal, the computer scores the test, and the test’s results and interpretation are immediately available. Because computer-assisted testing can lower testing costs, decrease feedback time, and yield results in which the test-takers can have great confidence, many public and private employers are switching to this method. Many state governments have found considerable cost savings in allowing applicants to take a computerized test near where they live rather than having them travel great distances to take a test at a central loca- tion. This increase in efficiency does not come at the cost of decreased validity because, as mentioned previously, tests administered electronically seem to yield results similar to those administered through the traditional paper-and-pencil format.

An increasingly common use of computer testing is computer-adaptive testing (CAT). In fact, you probably took the SAT in a computer-adaptive format. With CAT, the computer “adapts” the next question to be asked on the basis of how the test-taker responded to the previous question or questions. For example, if the test-taker successfully answered three multiplication questions in a row, the computer would move to another type of math rather than wasting time by asking seven more multiplication questions. When taking a CAT, the computer starts by asking questions of average difficulty. If the test-taker answers these cor- rectly, the computer asks more difficult questions. If the test-taker answers these questions incorrectly, the computer asks easier questions. The logic behind CAT is that if a test-taker can’t answer easy questions (e.g., addition and subtraction), it doesn’t make sense to ask questions about algebra and geometry. The advantages to CAT is that fewer test items are required, tests take less time to complete, finer distinctions in applicant ability can be made, test-takers can receive immediate feedback, and test scores can be interpreted not only on the number of questions answered correctly, but on which questions were correctly answered.

evaluating selection techniques and decisions

215