---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 71a08f923eb248a87da9f855577c1be87a96d229
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
## Successfully Surviving the Interview Process

Even though the unstructured employment interview has many problems, the odds are high that a person being considered for a job will undergo such an inter- view. Research and experience both indicate that applicants can take several steps to increase their interview scores. One of the most important of these steps is to obtain training on how to interview. Research by Maurer and his colleagues (Maurer, Solamon, Andrews, & Troxtel, ; Maurer, Solamon, & Troxtel, ) has shown that such training can increase an applicant’s score on structured interviews. Receiving interview training and practicing interviewing skills are good ways to reduce interview anxiety. Reducing anxiety is important, as research indicates that there is a negative correlation between interviewee anxiety and interview performance (McCarthy & Goffin, ; McCarthy & Saks, ).

Scheduling the Interview Contrary to advice given in popular magazines, neither day of week nor time of day affect interview scores (Aamodt, ; Willihnganz & Myers, ). What will affect the score, however, is when applicants arrive for the interview. If they arrive late, the score will be drastically lower (Lantz, ). In fact, in a study I conducted (Aamodt, ), no applicant who arrived late was hired. No differences, however, have been found in interview scores based on whether an applicant arrives on time or five or ten minutes early. Therefore, the interview can be scheduled for any time of the day or week, but the applicant must not be late!

Before the Interview Learn about the company (Williams, ). Recall from Figure . that one of the most commonly asked unstructured interview questions (“What do you know about our company?”) is used to determine the applicant’s knowledge of the organization. Not only does this advice make sense, but research has found that an applicant’s knowledge significantly correlates (.) with the interview rating (Aamodt, ) and that interview preparation significantly correlates with being asked back for a second interview (Caldwell & Burger, ). Organizations are especially impressed if an applicant knows its products and services, future needs, major problems faced, and philosophy or mission. Statistics such as market share and sales volume are not as valuable (Gardner, ).

A former student of mine tells the story of an interview for a managerial position that she had with Allstate Insurance. The night before the interview, she read all the available information on Allstate at her local library. During the interview, she was asked why she wanted to work for Allstate. She replied that she was active in the community and was attracted to Allstate because of its “ Helping Hands” community program—which she had read about the night before. The interviewer was greatly impressed and spent the next  minutes describing the program and its importance. The interview was a success in part because the applicant had done her homework. To see how the Career Services Center at your university can help you prepare for interviews, complete the Finding Career Resources Exercise (.) in your workbook.

On the day of the interview, dress neatly and professionally, and adjust your style as necessary to fit the situation (Williams, ). Avoid wearing accessories such as flashy large earrings and brightly colored ties. Hair should be worn con- servatively—avoid “big hair” and colors such as purple and green (impersonating a member of MTV’s Osbourne family is not a good interview strategy).

During the Interview Most suggestions about how best to behave in an interview take advantage of the interviewer biases discussed in this chapter. Nonverbal behaviors should include a firm handshake, eye contact, smiling, and head-nodding. Desired verbal behav- iors include asking questions, subtly pointing out how you are similar to the interviewer, not asking about the salary, not speaking slowly, and not hesitating before answering questions (DeGroot & Motowidlo, ). Keep in mind that first impressions are the most important. If you want to appear similar to the inter- viewer, look around the office. Kopitzke and Miller () found that the contents of an interviewer’s office are often related to her personality and interests.

As a method of saving travel expenses associated with face-to-face inter- views, many organizations interview applicants through a videoconference in which an applicant goes to a local Kinko’s (or similar location) and is interviewed by employers hundreds or thousands of miles away. Although the previous inter- view advice still holds for videoconference interviews, some additional advice includes speaking loudly, keeping hand and arm movements to a minimum, looking directly at the camera, and dressing in conservative, solid colors.

After the Interview Immediately following the interview, write a brief letter thanking the interviewer for her time. Although research evidence supports all of the suggestions offered in this section, no research has been done on the effects of thank-you letters. Still, this

employee selection: recruiting and interviewing

145
