# Manual performance declines by 15% (Tanaka, Tochihara, Yamazaki, Ohnaka, & Yoshida, 1983) 20 15 10 5 0 when only a small amount of time is spent on the task. Thus, it seems that we can eventually adapt to extreme temperatures and perform at close to normal levels. Though employee comfort and performance is important, heat can also affect the performance of machines and equipment. For example, a California printing and bookbinding company ran into interesting problems involving the airflow in one of its plants. The facility had many different types of printing presses, as well as binders that required the melting of glue chips. As you can imagine, the heat from summer air, binding machines, and employees’ bodies combined to make working conditions uncomfortable. To solve this problem, the managers decided to increase the airflow by open- ing all of the plant’s doors and windows and letting the ocean breezes cool the plant. Unfortunately, the increased airflow not only cooled the plant and made the employees more comfortable but also caused the mechanical collating machines to malfunction. These machines use sensors that warn their operators when too many or too few sheets of paper have been picked up. The breezes ruf- fled the sheets and thus set off the sensors. The increased airflow may have made the employees more comfortable and productive, but it reduced the equipment’s productivity. Because the potential output of the collating machines was much greater than the outputs of the individual employees, the windows were closed. As a result, the employees became irritable but overall productivity increased. A similar case occurred at a knitting mill whose owners discovered that yarn tended to snap when humidity was low. Therefore, they made no attempt to dehumidify the air. Unfortunately for the millworkers, the high humidity made working conditions uncomfortable. Thus, a decision had to be made as to the ideal humidity level that would keep the employees happy and productive with- out causing the yarn to snap. So the humidity level was slightly lowered. A final example of the differential effects of temperature comes from baseball. When temperatures are high, players are uncomfortable, and pitchers tire more quickly than when temperatures are moderate. But the hotter air allows a baseball to travel farther when hit, and there are often more home runs. Thus, the higher temperatures negatively affect pitchers but positively affect batters. Effects Related to Workload. High temperatures obviously most affect work perfor- mance when workloads are heavy. That is, an effective temperature of  degrees would quickly affect a person using a sledgehammer but take longer to affect a person pulling weeds. However, exposure to even moderate levels of heat while performing “light” repetitive-motion work can be dangerous. In a study of female laundry workers, Brabant () found increases in discomfort and cardiac strain—results that were not immediately dangerous but had the potential for future health problems. Rest Periods. Temperature will have the greatest effect on performance when work activity is continuous. With rest breaks, the effects of either heat or cold can be greatly reduced. For example, most people can work for approximately  minutes at  degrees without impaired performance. At  degrees, how- ever, the maximum time for continued performance is approximately  minutes; after that time, performance deteriorates (Wing, ). Thus, in temperatures of  degrees, rest breaks scheduled at a maximum of two hours apart will help keep performance (and the employee) from deteriorating. At  degrees, rest breaks must occur at intervals of less than  minutes. An interesting problem developed at a large amusement park when its employees were exposed to summer heat. The park had several employees dress in theme costumes, which we will call “gnomes” to protect the park’s reputa- tion. The thick and heavy gnome costumes were worn even during summer when temperatures were almost always in the s and s. The job of each cos- tumed employee was to walk around the park and greet customers, especially children. Problems, however, began when children punched the gnomes and knocked them over (a rolling gnome was actually a fairly funny sight). Normally, the gnomes kept their sense of humor and laughed, but after an hour in costume stress management: dealing with the demands of life and work 571 572 chapter  in -degree temperatures, they sometimes lost their humor and began punch- ing back. And when they were not hitting children, the gnomes were passing out from the heat. Obviously, something had to be done. To solve the problem, the park’s management had the gnomes work four- hour shifts instead of . As we might expect from the previous discussion, this solution was ineffective. Why? Because the outside temperature was  degrees and the effective temperature inside the costume was at least  degrees higher. At such high temperatures, continuous activity brought decreased performance in less than  minutes. The solution that worked, of course, was to have the gnomes work for  minutes and then take short breaks in an air-conditioned room, thus taking advantage of what we know about exposure limits to heat as well as frequency of breaks. An interesting adaptation to extreme temperature can be found at the Ice Hotel, located above the Arctic Circle in Sweden. The Ice Hotel is a fascinat- ing structure made completely of ice—the walls, floors, beds, chairs, and even the chandeliers! During the winter, the temperature outside the hotel falls to  degrees below zero and the inside temperature stays at a constant  degrees. How do the employees and guests handle these temperatures? By wearing snow suits, gloves, and hats while indoors, everyone stays rather toasty. Because the people at the reception desk are exposed to the bitter outside cold each time someone opens the door, the receptionists work  minutes at the reception desk and then  minutes in a “warmer” part of the hotel before rotating back to the reception desk for another  minutes. Thus, through the use of proper clothing and rest periods, the Ice Hotel is able to keep its employees safe and productive (and from what we could see, very happy as well). Other Sources of Stress Minor Frustration Minor frustration is stress we encounter in our daily lives, and it might include irritations such as waiting in traffic or not being able to get some information from the library. Minor frustrations may try our patience, but in and of them- selves they may not be a problem and usually last for only a short duration, such as an hour or a few hours. If we do not have a healthy outlet for our frustrations, they may build up over time until they control us. These short-term frustrations may then carry over to the next day and then the next, until finally they become long-term stressors. Minor frustrations can be managed through perspective taking. Perspective taking means rating the frustration on a scale of –, with  meaning the situ- ation is worthy of high levels of irritation. A friend of mine rates everything on a scale of life and death. He says that during potential stress- producing situations, he asks himself the following question: “How bad is this in relation to death?” Because he served in Vietnam, faced death often, and in fact saw many of his buddies killed, most of the situations he confronts get a very low rating. Conse- quently, he is basically a very peaceful and laid-back individual. Now, most of us can’t relate to life’s situations on that basis because we have never come close to experiencing death. But we can still ask ourselves: “In the scheme of things, just how important was that incident? Is it important enough for me to have a bad day, increase my chances of a heart attack, or die for?” See how perspective tak- ing works? Making sure you don’t make “mountains out of molehills” can keep you from having to deal with the long-term effects of stress. Forecasting The stress from forecasting develops from our constantly worrying about the future and wasting time and energy on “what ifs?” This continuous fretting about things over which we may have no control (such as the end of the universe from aliens!) or that may never even happen can become very emotionally and physi- cally draining, not to mention debilitating. Forecasting very quickly becomes long-term stress as we continue to keep our minds and bodies in a fearful and anxious state. Learning how to recognize those areas you can’t control and ceas- ing to worry about them is the key to eliminating stress from forecasting. Residual Stress Residual stress is stress that is carried over from previous stressful situations that we refuse to “let go.” Minor frustrations can become residual stress if we don’t handle those daily problems effectively and rehash them over and over again. Many people continue to carry grudges, hurt, or anger from past situa- tions that keep them in a constant state of stress. For example,