---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d083c338ac13b51b3dde63e17bb9ded1bb1c84b1
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
Sioux Falls, South Dakota, realized the importance of trust when it decided to change the organization to foster more employee participation. Viking Glass spent more than a year laying the foundation to increase the extent to which its employees trusted the company. After gaining employees’ trust, the company successfully increased the level of employee empowerment. The Person Being Changed. As one would imagine, there is considerable variability in the way in which people instigate or react to change. Change agents are people who enjoy change and often make changes just for the sake of it. A change agent’s motto might best be expressed as “If it ain’t broke, break it.” Though many people like to call themselves change agents, it may not be such a compliment. That is, reasoned change is good, but change for the sake of change is disruptive. Let me give you an example. When I was about , I was president of our local Kiwanis Club. Now before you get too impressed, I was asked to be president because I was the only person in the club who had not yet been president and one of only five or so members who was under the age of . My first act as president was to restructure all of the committees and create an impressive- looking matrix to depict these changes. When I presented this matrix at our board meeting, each member just stared at me (some were already asleep), until one person said, “Mike, you can’t change committees. It’s in the national bylaws.” My response was to say “oops” and move on to the next topic. Though this story is not an example of good leadership skills, it is a perfect example of being a change agent. By the way, with some maturity, I hope I have become a change analyst. Change analysts are not afraid to change or make changes but want to make changes only if the changes will improve the organization. Their motto might be “If it ain’t broke, leave it alone; if it’s broke, fix it.” Change analysts are people who constantly ask such questions as “Why are we doing this?” and “Is there a better way we could be doing this?” But in contrast to the change agent, they are not driven by a need to change constantly. Receptive changers are people who probably will not instigate change but are willing to change. Their motto is “If it’s broke, I’ll help fix it.” Receptive chang- ers typically have high self-esteem and optimistic personalities and believe they have control over their own lives (Wanberg & Banas, ). Receptive changers are essential for any major organizational change to be successful. Reluctant changers will certainly not instigate or welcome change, but they will change if necessary. Their motto is “Are you sure it’s broken?” Change resisters hate change, are scared by it, and will do anything they can to keep change from occurring. Their motto is “It may be broken, but it’s still better than the unknown.”
