# Hygiene factors Safety needs have been expanded to include psychological as well as physi- cal safety. Psychological safety—often referred to as job security—can certainly affect job motivation. For example, public-sector employees often list job security as a main benefit to their jobs—a benefit so strong that they will stay in lower- paying public-sector jobs rather than take higher-paying, yet less secure, jobs in the private sector. The importance of safety needs was demonstrated in a  survey asking employees about the work factors that were most important to them. The most important factor was job security, followed by benefits, compensation, and feel- ing safe in the work environment (SHRM, b). Thus three of the top four needs were related to the safety or security factor. Social Needs. Once the first two need levels have been met, employees will remain motivated by their jobs only when their social needs have been met. Social needs involve working with others, developing friendships, and feeling needed. Orga- nizations attempt to satisfy their employees’ social needs in a variety of ways. Company cafeterias provide workers with a place and an opportunity to socialize and meet other employees, company picnics allow families to meet one another, and company sports programs such as bowling teams and softball games provide opportunities for employees to play together in a neutral environment. It is important that an organization make a conscious effort to satisfy these social needs when a job itself does not encourage social activity. For example, janitors or night watchmen encounter few other people while working. Thus the chance of making new friends is small. A good friend of mine worked in a large public agency before becoming a writer and working out of her home. Prior to working at home, she had seldom accepted invitations to attend parties or socialize. In her words, “Once I get home, I don’t want to see another person.” However, now that her only social contact during the day is a one-sided conversation with a three-legged, neurotic cat, she socializes every chance she gets. Ego Needs. When social needs have been satisfied, employees concentrate next on meeting their ego needs. These are needs for recognition and success, and an organization can help to satisfy them through praise, awards, promotions, salary increases, publicity, and many other ways. For example, former Tonight Show host Johnny Carson once commented that the most prestigious sign at NBC was not the salary of the television star or producer, but rather whether the person had his or her own parking space. Likewise, many organizations use furniture to help satisfy ego needs. The higher the employee’s position, the better her office furniture. Similarly, at one engineering firm in Louisville, Kentucky, engineers are not allowed to mount their diplomas or awards on the wall until they receive their professional certification. At the university where I work, faculty, depart- ment chairs, deans, and vice presidents are given furniture that is “commensu- rate with their status.” Perhaps this explains the card table and folding chairs in my office! Self-Actualization Needs. Even when employees have friends, have earned awards, and are making a relatively high salary, they may not be completely motivated by their jobs because their self-actualization needs may not have been satisfied yet. These needs are the fifth and final level of Maslow’s needs hierarchy (the top level in Table .). Self-actualization might be best defined by the U.S. Army’s recruit- ing slogan “Be all that you can be.” An employee striving for self-actualization employee motivation 335 336 chapter  wants to reach her potential in every task. Thus, employees who have worked with the same machine for  years may become dissatisfied with and less moti- vated by their jobs. They have accomplished all that can be accomplished with that particular machine and now search for a new challenge. If none is available, they may become dissatisfied and unmotivated. With some jobs, satisfying self-actualization needs is easy. For example, a college professor always has new research to conduct, new classes to teach, and new clients to consult. Thus, the variety of tasks and the new problems encoun- tered provide a constant challenge that can lead to higher motivation. Other jobs, however, may not satisfy self-actualization needs. A good example is an employee who welds parts on an assembly line. For eight hours a day, forty hours a week, she performs only one task. Boredom and the realization that the job will never change begin to set in. It is no wonder that the employee becomes dissatisfied and loses motivation. Evaluation of Maslow’s Theory Although Maslow’s needs theory makes good intuitive sense and has always been popular with managers and marketing analysts, it lost popularity with academi- cians in the s before making a resurgence in the new millennium (Latham & Pinder, ). The lack of popularity was due to three potential problems with the theory. The first concern was that Maslow’s five levels may be too many, and that there are actually only two or three levels (Aldefer, ). However, some more recent research (Ronen, ) suggests that five might actually be the cor- rect number. A second problem with the theory is that some people do not progress up the hierarchy as Maslow suggests they do. That is, most people move up from the basic biological needs level to safety needs to social needs and so on. Some people, however, have been known to skip levels. For example, bungee jump- ers obviously skip the safety-needs level and go straight to satisfying their ego needs. Thus, when exceptions to the hierarchical structure occur, the theory loses support. Another problem is that the theory predicts that once the needs at one level are satisfied, the next needs level should become most important. Research, how- ever, has shown that this does not necessarily happen (Salancik & Pfeffer, ). Even though Maslow’s theory has not been supported by research, it may still be useful. Some of the theory’s specific assertions may not be true, but it still provides guidelines that organizations can follow to increase motivation and satisfaction. Providing recognition, enrichment, and a safe workplace does increase employee motivation. The validity of this recommendation is probably why Maslow’s theory still is widely used by human resources professionals, even though it is not popular with academicians and researchers who prefer more complicated models. A situation at a major university provides an example of how Maslow’s gen- eral principles can be used. After years of increasing enrollment and prestige, a scandal at the university caused a rapid decline in enrollment, financial backing, and staff morale. To fix these problems, a new president was hired. His first acts were to announce a “spirit day” each Friday on which employees could dress casu- ally, an increased emphasis on diversity issues, and his intention to start a new sports team. Employee satisfaction and motivation continued to drop, faculty left in great numbers, and millions of dollars were cut from the budget. What went wrong? Among many things, the president’s proposals were aimed at Maslow’s level three and above, whereas the employees’ needs were at level two—that is, “Will this university survive?” and “Will I still have a job next year?” ERG Theory Because of the technical problems with Maslow’s hierarchy, Aldefer () devel- oped a needs theory that has only three levels. As shown in Table ., the three levels are existence, relatedness, and growth—hence the name ERG theory. Other than the number of levels, the major difference between Maslow’s theory and ERG theory is that Aldefer suggested that a person can skip levels. By allowing for such movement, Aldefer has removed one of the biggest problems with Maslow’s theory. Furthermore, Aldefer’s theory explains why a higher-level need sometimes does not become more important once a lower-level need has been satisfied. Aldefer believes that for jobs in many organizations, advancement to the next level is not possible because of such factors as company policy or the nature of the job. Thus the path to the next level is blocked, and the employee becomes frustrated and places more importance on the previous level. Perhaps that is why some unions demand more money and benefits for their members rather than job enrichment. They realize that the jobs will always be tedious and that little can be done to improve them. Thus, the previous needs level becomes more important. This idea has received at least some empirical support (Hall & Nougaim, ; Salancik & Pfeffer, ). Two-Factor Theory As shown in Tables . and ., Herzberg () believed that job-related fac- tors could be divided into two categories—hygiene factors and motivators—thus the name two-factor theory. Hygiene factors are those job-related elements that result from but do not involve the job itself. For example, pay and benefits are consequences of work but do not involve the work itself. Similarly, making new friends may result from going to work, but it is also not directly involved with the tasks and duties of