# Organizational fit

What type of work pace is best for you? Describe your experience working with a culturally diverse group of people.

applicant to explain what she won the McArthur Award for and another applicant what she was doing during a two-year gap between jobs. Disqualifiers are ques- tions that must be answered a particular way or the applicant is disqualified. For example, if a job requires that employees work on weekends, a disqualifier might be, “Are you available to work on weekends?” If the answer is no, the applicant will not get the job.

Skill-level determiners tap an interviewee’s level of expertise. For example, if an applicant says she is proficient in Microsoft Word, an interviewer might ask some questions about the word processing program. If an applicant claims to be fluent in Spanish, the interviewer might want to ask her a few questions in Spanish. Future-focused questions, also called situational questions, ask an appli- cant what she would do in a particular situation. As shown in Table ., the first step in creating situational questions is to collect critical incidents, a technique you learned in Chapter . These incidents are then rewritten into questions that will be used during the interview. It is important that these questions can be answered with the applicant’s current knowledge. That is, asking police appli- cants situational questions in which they would need knowledge of police proce- dures would not be appropriate because they won’t learn this information until they graduate from the police academy. After creating the questions, the next step is to create a scoring key. This step will be discussed later in the chapter.

Past-focused questions, sometimes referred to as patterned behavior description interviews (PBDIs), differ from situational interview questions by focusing on previous behavior rather than future intended behavior. That is, applicants are asked to provide specific examples of how they demonstrated job-related skills in previous jobs (Janz, Hellervik, & Gilmore, ). Although future-focused and past-focused interview questions have different orientations, interviewees who do well on one type typically do well on the other (Campion et al., ; Cohen & Scott, ). However, scores on past-focused questions