---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2cfca07dde0e1e283a0b23a5d1058e676a34fbe8
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
die for?” See how perspective tak- ing works? Making sure you don’t make “mountains out of molehills” can keep you from having to deal with the long-term effects of stress. Forecasting The stress from forecasting develops from our constantly worrying about the future and wasting time and energy on “what ifs?” This continuous fretting about things over which we may have no control (such as the end of the universe from aliens!) or that may never even happen can become very emotionally and physi- cally draining, not to mention debilitating. Forecasting very quickly becomes long-term stress as we continue to keep our minds and bodies in a fearful and anxious state. Learning how to recognize those areas you can’t control and ceas- ing to worry about them is the key to eliminating stress from forecasting. Residual Stress Residual stress is stress that is carried over from previous stressful situations that we refuse to “let go.” Minor frustrations can become residual stress if we don’t handle those daily problems effectively and rehash them over and over again. Many people continue to carry grudges, hurt, or anger from past situa- tions that keep them in a constant state of stress. For example, have you ever been in a relationship that ended unexpectedly? If you didn’t want the relationship to end, you may have been very hurt and then became angry. Now, every time you think of that situation, you get angry and hurt all over again. Many people con- tinue to dredge up those bad feelings long after the relationship is over. All this does is recycle the stress process. Residual stress is almost always long term: If not dealt with, it chips away at our physical and emotional well-being until we become prisoners to its effects. This type of stress eventually leads individuals to therapy and counseling to learn positive ways, such as forgiveness, to cope with past negative experiences.
