---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ed716e07c87bba8b92d154d9a231315087a69467
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
allow their employees to create their own titles, it is important that employees who are doing the same job have the same title and that the title accurately reﬂ ect the nature of the job (Garvey, ). Brief Summary Th e summary need be only a paragraph in length but should brieﬂ y describe the nature and purpose of the job. Th is summary can be used in help-wanted adver- tisements, internal job postings, and company brochures. Work Activities Th e work-activities section lists the tasks and activities in which the worker is involved. Th ese tasks and activities should be organized into meaningful catego- ries to make the job description easy to read and understand. Th e category labels are also convenient to use in the brief summary. As you can see in the sample job description in Table ., the  work activities performed by the bookkeeper are divided into seven main areas: accounting, clerical, teller, share draft, collections, payroll, and ﬁ nancial operations. Tools and Equipment Used A section should be included that lists all the tools and equipment used to per- form the work activities in the previous section. Even though tools and equip- ment may have been mentioned in the activities section, placing them in a separate section makes their identiﬁ cation simpler. Information in this section is used primarily for employee selection and training. Th at is, an applicant can be asked if she can operate an adding machine, a computer, and a credit history machine. Job Context Th is section should describe the environment in which the employee works and should mention stress level, work schedule, physical demands, level of responsi- bility, temperature, number of coworkers, degree of danger, and any other relevant information. Th is information is especially important in providing applicants with disabilities with information they can use to determine their ability to perform a job under a particular set of circumstances. Work Performance Th e job description should outline standards of performance. Th is section con- tains a relatively brief description of how an employee’s performance is evaluated and what work standards are expected of the employee. Compensation Information Th is section of the job description should contain information on the salary grade, whether the position is exempt, and the compensable factors used to determine salary. Th ese concepts will be described later in the chapter. Th e employee’s actual salary or salary range should not be listed on the job description. Job Competencies Th is section contains what are commonly called job speciﬁ cations or competencies. Th ese are the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics (KSAOs) (such as interest, personality, and training) that are necessary to be successful on the job. Job speciﬁ cations are determined by deciding what types of KSAOs are needed to perform the tasks identiﬁ ed in the job analysis. Th ese KSAOs can be determined through a combination of logic, research, and use of speciﬁ c job analysis techniques discussed later in this chapter. job analysis and evaluation 39
