# Employee Acceptance of Change Though change can be beneficial to organizations, employees are often initially reluctant to change. This reluctance is understandable, as employees are comfortable doing things the old way. They may fear that change will result in less favorable working conditions and economic outcomes than what they are used to. According to consultant William Bridges (), it is common for employees undergoing change to feel out of control and as if they are losing their identity (“Who am I? What am I supposed to do?”), meaning (“How do I fit into the newly changed organization?”), and belonging (“Why do I have to work with a bunch of new people I don’t even know?”). Stages In the past  years, there have been many theories regarding the change pro- cess. Most of these theories postulate that the change process occurs in between three (Lewin, ) and seven (Lippitt, Watson, & Westley, ) stages or phases, depending on whether the focus of the theory is the organization (Lewin, ), the change agent (Lippitt et al., ), or the employee (Carnall, ). The difference between a stage and a phase is that stages are distinct time periods whereas phases can overlap with one another (Burke, ). s e g a m y t t e G / c s i D o t o h P / y a V c M n a y R © Lewin () theorized that organizations go through three stages: unfreez- ing, moving, and refreezing. In the unfreezing stage, the organization must convince employees and other stakeholders (e.g., shareholders, the community) that the current state of affairs is unacceptable and that change is necessary. In the moving stage, the organization takes steps (e.g., training, new work pro- cesses) to move the organization to the desired state. In the refreezing stage, the organization develops ways to keep the new changes in place, such as formalizing new policy and rewarding employees for behaving in a manner consistent with the new change. Carnall () suggests that employees typically go through five stages during major organizational changes: Denial, defense, discarding, adaptation, and inter- nalization. Stage 1: Denial. During this initial stage, employees deny that any changes will actu- ally take place, try to convince themselves that the old way is working, and create reasons why the proposed changes will never work (e.g., “We tried that before and it didn’t work. Something like that won’t work in a company like ours”). Stage 2: Defense. When employees begin to believe that change will actually occur, they become defensive and try to justify their positions and ways of doing things. The idea here is that if an organization is changing the way in which employees perform, there is an inherent criticism that the employees must have previously been doing things wrong. Stage 3: Discarding. At some point, employees begin to realize not only that the orga- nization is going to change but that the employees are going to have to change as well. That is, change is inevitable, and it is in the best interest of the employee to discard the old ways and start to accept the change as the new reality. Stage 4: Adaptation. At this stage, employees test the new system, learn how it func- tions, and begin to make adjustments in the way they perform. Employees spend tremendous energy at this stage and can often become frustrated and angry. Stage 5: Internalization. In this final stage, employees have become immersed in the new culture, become comfortable with the new system, and accepted their new coworkers and work environment. Important Factors The extent to which employees readily accept and handle change is dependent on the reason behind the change, the leader making the change, and the personality of the person being changed. The Type of Change. Organization change expert Warner Burke () distinguishes two types of change: evolutionary and revolutionary. The vast majority of change is evolutionary, that is the continual process of upgrading or improving processes; for example, the dreaded change from Windows XP to Vista, a change in the supervisor to whom one reports, or a change in how to submit travel receipts for reimbursement. Burke defines revolutionary change as a “real jolt to the system” that drastically changes the way things are done. Examples might include developing a brand new product line that requires a vastly different skill set, completely changing the organizational structure, or organizational misconduct (e.g., Enron, Adelphia, Arthur Anderson) that causes an organization to com- pletely change its ethical policies and behavior. Clearly, revolutionary change is more difficult than is evolutionary change. organization development 517 518 chapter  The Reason behind the Change. Employee acceptance of change is often a function of the reason behind the change. For example, employees understand (but don’t necessarily like) change that is due to financial problems, external mandates, or attempts to improve the organization. Acceptance is lower when employees perceive the change to be in organizational philosophy, a whim on the part of the person making the change (“Hey, let’s do teams”), or a change because every- one else is changing (“Everyone else has teams, so we need to create them now before we get left behind”). Employees are least likely to accept change if they don’t understand or were not told the reasons behind the change. The Person Making the Change. Another factor affecting employee acceptance of change is the person making or suggesting the change. Not surprisingly, work- ers are more positive about change when the source of change is within the work group rather than an external source (Griffin, Rafferty, & Mason, ). Changes proposed by leaders who are well liked and respected and who have a history of success are more likely to be accepted than changes proposed by leaders whose motives are suspect (Dirks, ; Lam & Schaubroeck, ). Let me provide two very different examples. 7 7 In the first example, the head of a small consulting firm decided to change the focus of her business from delivering training seminars to helping companies switch from a traditional organizational approach to a flatter, team-based approach. Though the consultant’s employees were apprehensive about the change in focus, they quickly accepted the change because the consultant was well respected for her knowledge, treated her employees as family, and had on a prior occasion changed the company’s focus, resulting in a % increase in revenue. In the second example, due to financial and regulatory reasons, a local mental health agency was forced to move its  employees from their current buildings to a new location. A management committee was formed to determine the location for the new building. When the new location was announced, the employees were very upset. The new building was expensive, in a highly congested traffic area, and located far away from most of the agency’s clients. The employees’ unhappiness was not due to the relocation but to the choice of buildings. It just didn’t make sense. That is, it didn’t make sense until several of the employees realized that the new building was only five minutes from where each of the deciding committee members lived. I don’t think I have to finish the story for you to understand the importance of motive. The differences in these two stories are clear. In the first, employees quickly accepted change because they trusted the person making the change. In the sec- ond, the employees did not accept the change because the decision makers were not well respected and acted in a manner inconsistent with the well-being of the majority of employees. For organizational change of any type to work, it is essential that employ- ees trust the organization as a whole as well as the specific individuals making the change. Viking Glass in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, realized the importance of trust when it decided to change the organization to foster more employee participation. Viking Glass spent more than a year laying the foundation to increase the extent to which its employees trusted the company. After gaining employees’ trust, the company successfully increased the level of employee empowerment. The Person Being Changed. As one would imagine, there is considerable variability in the way in which people instigate or react to change. Change agents are people who enjoy change and often make changes just for the sake of it. A change agent’s motto might best be expressed as “If it ain’t broke, break it.” Though many people like to call themselves change agents, it may not be such a compliment. That is, reasoned change is good, but change for the sake of change is disruptive. Let me give you an example. When I was about , I was president of our local Kiwanis Club. Now before you get too impressed, I was asked to be president because I was the only person in the club who had not yet been president and one of only five or so members who was under the age