---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 069a910b10ec49e2926423953ed9f8b208bb501b
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# Preparing for a Job Analysis Prior to conducting a job analysis, several decisions must be made that will inﬂ u- ence how it is conducted. Who Will Conduct the Analysis? Typically, a job analysis is conducted by a trained individual in the human resources department, but it can also be conducted by job incumbents, supervisors, or outside 42 chapter  consultants. If job incumbents or supervisors are used, it is essential that they be thoroughly trained in job analysis procedures. Th e Uniform Guidelines state that a job analysis must be “professionally conducted,” and a job analyst certainly cannot be called a professional unless she has been trained. In addition, research indicates that analysts who have been trained produce slightly diﬀ erent results from those produced by untrained analysts (Cellar, Curtis, Kohlepp, Poczapski, & Mohiuddin, ; Surrette, Aamodt, & Johnson, ). Time is always an issue when using supervisors or incumbents. Telling a super- visor to “write job descriptions in your spare time” is not likely to go over well. Th us, supervisors and employees will need to be released from other duties—a situation that is seldom possible. Th e state of Virginia developed a system in which all employees were asked to follow set guidelines and write their own job descriptions. Th e system itself was well conceived, but employees were not given enough job analysis train- ing, which resulted in substantial confusion and, in some cases, inaccurate job descriptions. Consultants are a good choice for conducting a job analysis because they are well trained and have extensive experience. Th e main drawback, though, is their expense. Consultants typically charge between $ and $ per hour based on their degree, experience, and reputation. Given that  hours is probably the least amount of time that will be spent analyzing the simplest job, and the most com- plex jobs can take weeks of analysis, an organization must carefully weigh the beneﬁ ts of consultants against their cost. An interesting alternative to consultants is the use of college interns. Gradu- ate students from I/O psychology programs tend to have job analysis training and experience and can be employed for a relatively small cost (often, at no cost). In fact, Radford University operates the Community Human Resource Center in which graduate students obtain job analysis experience by conducting job analy- ses free of charge to such local nonproﬁ t agencies as school systems, towns, and hospitals. In this way, graduate students obtain experience, and the nonproﬁ t organizations receive professional-quality job analyses and job descriptions at no cost. Similar programs can be found at the University of Tulsa and the University of Southern Mississippi. How Often Should a Job Description Be Updated? Th is is a tough question, and the typical answer is that a job description should be updated if a job changes signiﬁ cantly. With high-tech jobs, this is probably fairly often. With jobs such as package handling, the job might not change substantially for  years. An interesting study by Vincent, Rainey, Faulkner, Mascio, and Zinda () compared the stability of job descriptions at intervals of , , , , and  years. After one year, % of the tasks listed in the old and updated job descriptions were the same, dropping to % after  years. As one would expect, the stability of tasks performed, the tools and equipment used, and KSAOs needed to perform the job varied by the complexity of the job. An interesting reason that job descriptions change across time is job crafting – the informal changes that employees make in their jobs (Wrzesniewski & Dutton, ). Th at is, it is common for employees to quietly expand the scope of their jobs to add tasks they want to perform and to remove tasks that they don’t want to perform. In a study of sales representatives, % engaged in job crafting in just one year (Lyons, )! job analysis and evaluation 43 44 chapter  Which Employees Should Participate? For organizations with relatively few people in each job, it is advisable to have all employees participate in the job analysis. In organizations in which many people perform the same job (e.g., teachers at a university, assemblers in a factory), every person need not participate. If every incumbent is not going to participate, the question becomes, “How many people need to be included in the job analysis?” Th is is a diﬃ cult question, one that I normally answer by advising job analysts to keep interviewing incumbents until they do not hear anything new. Anecdotally, this seems to be after the third or fourth incumbent for a particular job. Th e answer to this question to some extent depends on whether the job analysis will be committee based or ﬁ eld based. In a committee-based job analysis, a group of subject matter experts (e.g., employees, supervisors) meet to generate the tasks performed, the conditions under which they are performed, and the KSAOs needed to perform them. In a ﬁ eld-based job analysis, the job analyst individually inter- views/observes a number of incumbents out in the ﬁ eld. Taken together, the results of four studies (Ash, Levine, Higbee, & Sistrunk, ; Maurer & Tross, ; O’Leary, Rheinstein, & McCauley, ; Tannenbaum & Wesley, ) suggest that committee-based job analyses yield similar results to ﬁ eld-based job analyses. Rouleau and Krain () developed a table to estimate how many incumbents should be included in a job analysis; their recommendation is that a committee-based approach should have one session of four to six incumbents for jobs having fewer than  incumbents and two to three sessions for jobs with higher numbers of incumbents. Green and Stutzman () have suggested a minimum of  incum- bents, and Gael () has suggested  to . Unfortunately, no research is available to verify the accuracy of these estimates. Beatty () compared the results of job analysis samples of , , , and  incumbents in a federal law enforcement position. His results indicated that the job tasks and job requirements resulting from the use of  versus  incumbents were nearly identical. Th ese results support and extend those found by Fletcher, Friedman, McCarthy, McIntyre, O’ Leary, and Rheinstein () and Pass and Robertson (), who found that job analysis samples of  and  yielded comparable results. Mullins () had  campus police oﬃ cers at  universities generate critical incidents as part of a job analysis. Th e results indicated that no new inci- dents appeared after examining the incidents from the ﬁ rst three universities. Furthermore, after examining the incidents supplied by the ﬁ rst  incumbents, no new incidents or categories appeared. After the number of participants has been determined, a decision needs to be made about which particular employees will participate. If every employee will not participate, the same sampling rules used in research should be used in job analysis. Th at is, as discussed in Chapter , participants should be selected in as random a way as practical yet still be representative. Th e reason for this, accord- ing to research, is that employee diﬀ erences in gender, race, job performance level, experience, job enjoyment, and personality can at times result in slightly diﬀ erent job analysis outcomes. Job Competence. Sanchez, Prager, Wilson, and Viswesvaran () and Mullins and Kimbrough () found that high-performing employees generated diﬀ erent job analysis outcomes than did low-performing employees; Ansoorian and Shultz () found moderate diﬀ erences in physical eﬀ ort made by employees with varying levels of expertise; and both Landy and Vasey () and Prien, Prien, and Wooten () found that more experienced employees rated tasks diﬀ erently than less experienced employees. However, Mailhot () did not ﬁ nd any diﬀ er- ences in job analysis ratings made by employees of diﬀ erent performance levels. If higher performing employees generate diﬀ erent job analysis results than lower performing employees, a tough decision must be made regarding which employees to include in the job analysis. On the one hand, it would be nice to include a representative sample of employees. On the other hand, do we really want to write a job description and select future employees on the basis of how poorly performing employees do their jobs? Race. Aamodt, Kimbrough, Keller, and Crawford (), Schmitt and Cohen (), Veres, Green, and Boyles (), and Landy and Vasey () report small but sig- niﬁ cant diﬀ erences in the ways in which white and African American incumbents viewed their jobs. For example, Landy and Vasey found that white police oﬃ - cers administered ﬁ rst aid more often and African American oﬃ cers were more involved in sweeps and raids related to widespread narcotics use. Interestingly, Veres et al. () found that job analysis ratings were related not only to the race of the incumbent but to the race of the incumbent’s coworkers. Gender. Landy and Vasey () found possible diﬀ erences in the ways men and women
