# Job Relatedness

Though few people would disagree that it is better for a police officer to be strong and fit than weak and out of shape, many argue whether it is necessary to be physically fit. Critics of physical agility testing cite two reasons for ques- tioning the necessity of physical agility: current out-of-shape cops and techno- logical alternatives. Currently, many police officers are overweight, slow, and out of shape, yet they perform safely and at high levels. Furthermore, there is research to suggest that physical size is not related to police safety (Griffiths & McDaniel, ). Thus, critics argue that physical agility is not an essential part of the job. This is especially true due to technological advances in policing. As an example, Sollie and Sollie () presented data showing that the use of pepper spray in Meridian, Mississippi, almost completely reduced the need for officers to

physically restrain drunk or physically aggressive suspects. However, supporters of physical ability testing cite studies demonstrating significant relationships between isometric strength tests and supervisor ratings of employee physical ability (Blakley, Quiñones, Crawford, & Jago, ).

Passing Scores A second problem with physical ability tests is determining passing scores; that is, how fast must an applicant run or how much weight must be lifted to pass a physical ability test? Passing scores for physical ability tests are set based on one of two types of standards: relative or absolute. Relative standards indicate how well an individual scores compared with others in a group such as women, police appli- cants, or current police officers. The advantage to using relative standards is that adverse impact is eliminated because men are compared with men and women with women. The problem with relative scales, however, is that a female applicant might be strong compared with other women, yet not strong enough to perform the job. Furthermore, relative standards based on protected classes (e.g., sex, race) were made illegal by the  Civil Rights Act (although technically illegal, the Jus- tice Department has not enforced the ban against gender-specific physical stan- dards). In contrast, absolute passing scores are set at the minimum level needed to perform a job. For example, if a police officer needs to be able to drag a -pound person from a burning car,  pounds becomes the passing score. As one can imagine, the problem comes in determining the minimum amounts. That is, how fast does an officer need to run to adequately perform the job? Because people come in all sizes, how many pounds does an officer need to be able to drag?

When the Ability Must Be Present A third problem with physical ability requirements is the point at which the ability must be present. Most police departments require applicants to pass phys- ical ability tests on the same day other tests are being completed. However, the applicant doesn’t need the strength or speed until he is actually in the academy or on the job. Furthermore, applicants going through an academy show significant increases in physical ability and fitness by the end of the academy (Henderson, Berry, & Matic, ). Showing awareness of this problem, cities such as San Francisco and Philadelphia provide applicants with a list of physical abilities that will be required of them once they arrive at the academy. Applicants are then given suggestions on how they can get themselves into the proper condition. Some cities even hold conditioning programs for applicants! Such policies greatly reduce adverse impact by increasing the physical ability of female applicants.

An interesting example of the importance of monitoring ability testing is pro- vided in a study by Padgett (), who was hired to determine vision requirements for a municipal fire department. Prior to Padgett’s study, national vision standards for firefighters had been set without any empirical research. The standards stipu- lated that firefighters needed a minimum uncorrected vision of / and could not wear contact lenses because they might be “blown out of their eyes.”

After conducting his study of actual job-related duties, however, Padgett dis- covered that the minimum vision needed to perform firefighting tasks was / if the person wore glasses and that there was no minimum if the person wore contacts. The difference in requirements for contacts and glasses was because certain duties might result in a loss of glasses, but it was very unlikely a firefighter would lose contacts while performing a task requiring acute vision. As a result of this study, many qualified applicants who had been turned away because of the archaic vision requirements were allowed the chance to become firefighters.

employee selection: references and testing

177