---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7b3318455e3b6dba35b0a64a3a1c5ad840076528
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# Legal Reasons for Terminating Employees In situations not covered by employment-at-will, there are only four reasons that an employee can be legally terminated: probationary period, violation of company rules, inability to perform, and an economically caused reduction in force (layoffs). Probationary Period In many jobs, employees are given a probationary period in which to prove that they can perform well. Though most probationary periods last  to  months, those for police officers are usually a year, and the probationary period for professors is  years! Employees can be terminated more easily during the probationary period than at any other time. Violation of Company Rules Courts consider five factors in determining the legality of a decision to terminate an employee for violating company rules. The first factor is that a rule against I understand that, if employed, I have the right to end my employment with Sordi Industries. Likewise, I understand that my employment with Sordi industries is not for any definite period of time, and Sordi Industries has the right to terminate my employment with or without cause and with or without notice. I understand that no representative of Sordi Industries is authorized to imply any contract for permanent employment. a particular behavior must actually exist. Though this may seem obvious, organizations often have “unwritten” rules governing employee behavior. These unwritten rules, however, will not hold up in court. For example, a manufacturer fired an employee for wearing a gun under his jacket at work. The employee successfully appealed on the grounds that even though “common sense” would say that guns should not be brought to work, the company did not have a written rule against it. If a rule exists, a company must prove that the employee knew the rule. Rules can be communicated orally during employee orientation and staff meetings and in writing in handbooks, newsletters, bulletin boards, and pay- check stuffers. Rules communicated in handbooks are the most legally defen- sible. To prove that an employee knew a rule, organizations require employees to sign statements that they received information about the rule, read the rule, and understand the rule. The third factor is the ability of the employer to prove that an employee actually violated the rule. Proof is accomplished through such means as witnesses, video recordings, and job samples. Human resources professionals almost have to be detectives because proving rule violations is often not easy. For example, two supervisors saw an employee stagger into work and could clearly smell alcohol on her breath. She was terminated for violating the company rule against drinking. During her appeal of the termination, she claimed that she staggered because she had the flu and what the supervisors smelled was cough syrup rather than alcohol. The employee won the appeal. As a result of this case, the company now has an on-site nurse, and breathalyzer tests are administered to employees suspected of using alcohol at work. The fourth factor considered by the courts is the extent to which the rule has been equally enforced. That is, if other employees violated the rule but were not terminated, terminating an employee for a particular rule violation may not be legal (Huske v. Honeywell International, ; Pineda v. United Parcel Service, ). This factor poses a dilemma for many organizations. Because courts look at consistency, lawyers advise organizations to fire any employee who violates a rule. To not fire a rule breaker sets a precedent, making termina- tion of future rule breakers more difficult. There are many times when a good employee breaks a rule, a situation that normally would result in termination. However, because the employee is highly valued, the organization does not want to fire the employee. Such a situation occurred at a bank. In violation of a bank rule, a teller did not ask for the ID of a customer who cashed what turned out to be a forged check. The bank was torn as to what it should do. Because the employee was one of their best tellers, the bank did not want to fire her. However, not firing her in this case would increase the chance that they would lose a future lawsuit if they terminated another employee for doing the same thing. The bank’s unusual decision was to terminate the employee, but it called a competitor, told it of the situation, and asked if it would hire her—which it did. The fifth and final factor is the extent to which the punishment fits the crime. Employees in their probationary period (usually their first  months) can be immediately fired for a rule infraction. For more tenured employees, however, the organization must make a reasonable attempt to change the person’s behav- ior through progressive discipline (Janove, ). The longer an employee has been with an organization, the greater the number of steps that must be taken evaluating employee performance 275 276 chapter  to correct her behavior. Discipline can begin with something simple such as counseling or an oral warning, move on to a written warning or probation, and end with steps such as reduction in pay, demotion, or termination. For violations of some rules, progressive discipline is not always necessary. It is probably safe to say that an employer can terminate an employee who steals money or shoots someone at work. Inability to Perform Employees can also be terminated for an inability to perform the job. To do so, though, an organization will need to prove that the employee could not perform the job and that progressive discipline was taken to give the employee an opportunity to improve. For an employer to survive a court challenge to terminating a poor-performing employee, it must first demonstrate that a reasonable standard of performance was communicated to the employee. The organization must next demonstrate that there was a documented failure to meet the standard. Such documentation can include critical-incident logs and work samples (e.g., poorly typed letters for a secretary, improperly hemmed pants for a tailor). A properly designed performance appraisal system is the key to legally termi- nating an employee (Martin, Bartol, & Kehoe, ). Legal performance appraisal systems (Smith, ) 7 7 7 7 7 7 are based on a job analysis have concrete, relevant standards that have been communicated to employees involve multiple behavioral measures of performance include several raters, each of whom has received training are standardized and formal provide the opportunity for an employee to appeal Reduction in Force (Layoff ) Employees can be terminated if it is in the best economic interests of an organization to do so. Reductions in force, more commonly called layoffs, have been used by the vast majority of Fortune  companies in the past few decades. In cases of large layoffs or plant closings, the Worker Adjust- ment and Retraining Notification Act (WARN) requires that organizations provide workers with at least  days’ notice. Though layoffs are designed to save money, research indicates not only that force reductions have a devastat- ing effect on employees (Leana & Feldman, ), but that they often do not result in the desired financial savings (Cascio, ). Layoffs are extensively discussed in Chapter . The Termination Meeting Prior to the Meeting Once a decision has been made to terminate an employee, certain steps should be taken to prepare for the meeting in which the decision will be communicated to the employee. The first step is to ensure that the legal process has been followed. For example, if an organization is about to terminate an employee for a rule violation, it must be sure that a rule actually existed, that the employee knew the rule, that the organization has proof that the rule was violated, that progressive discipline was used, and that the rule was applied equally to all employees. An important responsibility for human resources professionals is to ensure that a termination decision is legally defensible. The next step is to determine how much help, if any, the organization wants to offer the employee. Forms of help can include references, severance pay, and outplacement assistance. Usually, greater levels of help are given to employees who sign agreements not to sue the organization. The final step is to schedule an appropriate place and time for the meeting to occur. The meeting should be held in a neutral, private location. To avoid poten- tial damage caused by a hostile reaction to the termination decision, the meeting should not be held in a supervisor’s office. Rather than late on Friday afternoon, as is traditional, the meeting should take place on a Monday or Tuesday so that the employee has an opportunity to seek advice and the organization has a chance to talk to its employees (Karl & Hancock, ; Scrivner, ). When a termination is made on a Friday afternoon, the employee is unable to contact sources of help over the weekend. Likewise, the terminated employee has all weekend to get on the phone to tell her side of the story to other employees, while
