# Figure 5.2a A typical reference waiver

else. But if we require work-related references, they probably, but not necessar- ily, would be negative because research has shown that coworkers are willing to say negative things about unsatisfactory employees (Grote, Robiner, & Haut, ).

Although coworkers are willing to say negative things about unsatisfactory employees, confidentially concerns can hold them back. By law, people have the right to see their reference letters. By signing a waiver such as that shown in Figure .a, however, applicants can give up that right. This may be more ben- eficial for a potential employer; research by Ceci and Peters () and Shaffer and Tomarelli () indicates that people providing references tend to be less lenient when an applicant waives his right to see a reference letter. That is, when a person writing a reference letter knows that the applicant is allowed to see the letter, the writer is more inclined to provide a favorable evaluation. With this in mind, a colleague of mine almost completely discounts any recommendation let- ters for which the waiver is not signed.

A third cause of leniency stems from the fear of legal ramifications. A per- son providing references can be charged with defamation of character (slander if the reference is oral, libel if written) if the content of the reference is both untrue and made with malicious intent. This fear keeps many organizations from providing references at all (Kleiman & White, ). However, people pro- viding references are granted what is called a conditional privilege, which means that they have the right to express their opinion provided they believe what they say is true and have reasonable grounds for this belief (Ryan & Lasek, ;