## Focus on Ethics The Ethics of Using Role Play in Employee Trainings

287

Employee performance can be improved in many ways. In Chapters  and , you

learned that employee selection procedures often result in higher employee performance. But as you also learned in Chapter , employee selection is not an effective way to improve productivity in situations where only a few applicants compete for a large number of openings or a job involves only easily learned tasks. When these situations are encountered, training rather than selection tech- niques must be emphasized. For example, I was once involved in a project designed to develop a selection system for intramural basketball officials. Although we were successful in finding a test that correlated significantly with referee performance, we ran into a problem with the selection ratio. The intramural department needed  referees each year but had only  applicants. Thus, the selection test could not be used because the intramural department had to hire everyone who applied. The logical solution was to extensively train the referees who did apply.

This does not mean that training should be emphasized only when selection techniques are not appropriate. Instead, training should be used in conjunction with the selection systems discussed in Chapters  and , and with the motiva- tional techniques that will be discussed in Chapter .

Training is the “systematic acquisition of skills, rules, concepts, or attitudes that result in improved performance” (Goldstein & Ford, ). Training is impor- tant for several reasons. As shown in the intramural example above, organizations often have difficulty finding applicants with the necessary knowledge and skills to perform a job. Thus, training compensates for the inability to select desired applicants. Also, as discussed in Chapter , jobs change. Employees might have the necessary knowledge and skills one year, but have deficiencies by the next. Finally, no employee has the “complete package”—that is, every technical and interper- sonal knowledge and skill perfected; there is always room for improvement. The ultimate purpose of employee training is to increase an organization’s profits.

Collectively, organizations realize the importance of training by spending more than $. billion on it each year (ASTD, ). Major organizations spend an average of .% of their payroll on training—$, per employee (ASTD, ). In some organizations, including the Palace Hotel in Inverness, Scotland, training is viewed as so valuable that employee training is mentioned in the hotel’s mission statement.