---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e310534d10f4cc451fdf718072603caa5d78ebff
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# Production as a % of Minimum 1 2 3 101 111 121 131 141 151 161 171 181 191 201 211 221 231 241 251 $7.20 $7.56 $7.92 $8.28 $8.64 $9.00 $9.36 $9.72 $10.08 $10.44 $10.80 $11.16 $11.52 $11.88 $12.24 $12.60 $7.45 $7.81 $8.17 $8.53 $8.89 $9.25 $9.61 $9.97 $10.33 $10.69 $11.05 $11.41 $11.77 $12.13 $12.49 $12.85 $7.70 $8.06 $8.42 $8.78 $9.14 $9.50 $9.86 $10.22 $10.58 $10.94 $11.30 $11.66 $12.02 $12.38 $12.74 $13.10 4 $7.95 $8.31 $8.67 $9.03 $9.39 $9.75 $10.11 $10.47 $10.83 $11.19 $11.55 $11.91 $12.27 $12.63 $12.99 $13.35 making more money and working fewer hours than under the old hourly rate system (Tulgan, ). Union National Bank in Little Rock, Arkansas, has had tremendous success by paying its workers for the number of customers they serve, the number of new customers gained, the amount of time taken to balance accounts at the end of the day, and so on. The bank’s pay-for-performance program has resulted in the aver- age employee making % more in take-home pay, and the bank itself has almost doubled its profits. Nucor in Charlotte, North Carolina, is another company that has used a pay-for-performance plan. By paying its steelworkers for the amount of work they do, Nucor has seen productivity more than double, and its workers make more than $, per year, while the industry average is some $,. Though pay-for-performance plans appear to be successful for both the employee and the employer, some research suggests that employees are not satisfied with such plans (Brown & Huber, ). Merit Pay. The major distinction between merit pay and pay for performance is that merit pay systems base their incentives on performance appraisal scores rather than on such objective performance measures as sales and productivity. Thus, merit pay is a potentially good technique for jobs in which productivity is difficult to measure. The actual link between performance appraisal scores and the amount of merit pay received by an employee varies greatly around the United States. In the State of Virginia’s merit pay system, employees’ performance appraisal scores at each office are ranked, and the top % of employees each receive a $, annual bonus. In the merit pay system used by one nonprofit mental health agency, each employee’s performance appraisal rating is divided by the total number of performance points possible, and this percentage is then multiplied by the maxi- mum % merit increase that can be received by an employee. With this system, an employee must receive a perfect rating to receive the full % increase. Most employees receive between % and .%. The merit pay system used by a California public transit system is similar to that used by the mental health agency, with the exception that the merit increase becomes part of an employee’s base salary for the next pay period. Thus increases are perpetuated each year, unlike the mental health system’s one-time reward. In Bismarck, North Dakota, a computer program uses employee self-ratings (%), peer ratings (%), and supervisor ratings (%) to calculate an employee’s merit pay. Bismarck does not award cost-of-living or automatic annual increases (also called step increases). Research on merit pay has brought mixed reviews. Some research has shown that employees like the idea of merit pay, but other research has found that it is not popular with all employees and that many do not consider the merit ratings to be fair (Siegall & Worth, ). Not surprisingly, employees are most satisfied with merit pay if they help develop the system (Gilchrist & White, ). One of merit pay’s biggest problems is that increases are based on subjective performance appraisals. Aware of this, some supervisors will inflate performance appraisal scores to increase their employees’ pay and thus increase the positive feelings of employees toward their supervisors. Managers have also been known to inflate performance appraisal ratings when they believe the base salaries for certain positions are too low. employee motivation 351 352 chapter  Another problem with merit pay is that its availability or amount often changes with each fiscal year. Thus excellent performance one year might result in a large bonus, but the same performance another year might bring no bonus at all. This is especially true in the public sector. For merit pay to be successful, funding must be consistently available and the amount must be great enough (about %) to motivate employees (Bhakta & Nagy, ; Heneman & Coyne, ). Group Incentive Plans The idea behind group-based, or organization-based, incentive plans is to get employees to participate in the success or failure of the organization. Rather than encouraging individual competition, these plans reward employees for reaching group goals. The problems with group incentive plans are that they can encour- age social loafing and can get so complicated that they become difficult to explain to employees. In spite of these potential problems, meta-analysis results indicate that team-based incentive programs result in better performance (d = .) than do individual-based programs (d = ., Condly, Clark, & Stolovitch, ). Profit Sharing. Profit sharing was developed in the United States by Albert Gallatin way back in  (Henderson, ). As its name implies, profit-sharing pro- grams provide employees with a percentage of profits above a certain amount. For example, in addition to their base salary, employees might receive % of the profits a company makes above %. Organizations will usually not share the initial % or so of profits, as that money is needed for research and development and as a safety net for unprofitable years. The profits to be shared can be paid directly to employees as a bonus (cash plans) or placed into the employees’ retirement fund (deferred plans). Profit sharing will motivate employees only if they understand the link between performance and profits and believe that the company has a rea- sonable chance of making a profit. Research indicates that profit sharing results in greater employee commitment (Fitzgibbons, ; Florkowski & Schuster, ). Gainsharing. Used by about % of organizations (Mercer Consulting, ), gainsharing ties groupwide financial incentives to improvements (gains) in orga- nizational performance. Though the first gainsharing program was developed back in  by the Nunn-Bush Shoe Company in Milwaukee, gainsharing has become popular only since the s (Gowen, ). Gainsharing programs consist of three important elements: a cooperative/participative management philosophy, incentives based on improvement, and a group-based bonus formula (Gomez-Mejia, Welbourne, & Wiseman, ; Hanlon & Taylor, ). The typical gainsharing program works as follows. First, the company moni- tors performance measures over some period of time to derive a baseline. Then productivity goals above the baseline are set, and the employees are told that they will receive bonuses for each period that the goal is reached. To make goal setting more effective, constant feedback is provided to employees on how current per- formance is in relation to the goal. At the end of each reporting period, bonuses are paid on the basis of how well the group did. An excellent example of a successful gainsharing program can be found at the Dana Spicer Heavy Axle Division facility in Ohio. Employees at the Dana plant receive a financial bonus when productivity surpasses the baseline. The gainsharing program has dramatically increased the number of employee sugges- tions, product quality, and productivity. Employees’ bonuses average % above their normal pay each month, with year-end bonuses between % and %. As another example, Southern California Edison employees agreed to surrender % of their base pay. In return, they were given the opportunity to earn % to % of their base pay in a gainsharing plan. In  alone, this plan generated $ million in savings—$ million of which was passed on to the employees. In general, gainsharing plans seem to be effective. A review of gainsharing studies indicates improvements in productivity, increased employee and union satisfaction, and declines in absenteeism (Gowen, ). As with any incentive plan, gainsharing is most effective when employees are formally involved in the design and operation (Bullock & Tubbs, ) and when there is not a long delay between performance and the financial payoff (Mawhinney & Gowen, ). Stock Options. Although stock options represent the most complicated organiza- tional incentive plan, they are offered to all employees by more than % of com- panies (Mercer Consulting, ). With stock options, employees are given the opportunity to purchase stock in the future, typically at the market price on the day the options were granted. Usually stock options vest over a certain period of time and must be exercised within a maximum time frame. The idea is that as a company does well, the value of its stock increases, as does the employee’s profit. For example, suppose AT&T stock is selling for $ per share on June , and the company gives employees the option of purchasing the stock for $ per share anytime in the next ten years. Ten years later, the stock is worth $ per share and the employee can purchase the stock for the $ per share option
