# Interest Inventories

As the name implies, these tests are designed to tap vocational interests. The most commonly used interest inventory is the Strong Interest Inventory (SII), which asks individuals to indicate whether they like or dislike  items such as bargaining, repairing electrical wiring, and taking responsibility. The answers to these questions provide a profile that shows how similar a person is to people already employed in  occupations that have been classified into  basic inter- est scales and  general occupational themes. The theory behind these tests is that an individual with interests similar to those of people in a particular field will more likely be satisfied in that field than in a field composed of people whose interests are dissimilar. Other popular interest inventories include the Minnesota Vocational Interest Inventory, the Occupational Preference Inventory, the Kuder Occupational Interest Survey, the Kuder Preference Record, and the California Occupational Preference System.

Although meta-analyses indicate that scores on interest inventories have poor validity in selecting employees (Aamodt, ; Schmidt & Hunter, ), a meta-analysis by Morris and Campion () found that employees whose inter- ests are congruent with those of the job are more satisfied and perform at higher levels than employees whose interests are not congruent with the job. Interest inventories are useful in vocational counseling (helping people find the careers for which they are best suited). Conducted properly, vocational counseling uses a battery of tests that, at a minimum, should include an interest inventory and a series of ability tests. The interest inventory scores suggest careers for which the individual’s interests are compatible; the ability tests will tell him if he has the necessary abilities to enter those careers. If interest scores are high in a particular occupational area but ability scores are low, the individual is advised about the type of training that would best prepare him for a career in that particular area. To get a better feel for interest inventories, complete the short form of the Aamodt Vocational Interest Inventory (AVIS) found in Exercise . in your workbook.