# Organizational Stressors

Organizational characteristics that are likely to cause stress include such factors as person–organization fit, organizational rules and policies, supervisory rela- tionships, and organizational change.

Person–Organization Fit The term person/organization fit refers to how well such factors as your skills, knowledge, abilities, expectations, personality, values, and attitudes match those of the organization. At one time, organizations were concerned primarily that applicants had the necessary skills and knowledge to perform certain jobs. Now, organizations, as well as workers, realize that there are other areas in which compatibility is critical for an employee to “fit” into an organization and perform well. For example, a pro-life individual may not work well in an organization such as Planned Parenthood, a nonsmoker may not feel comfortable working for Phillip-Morris, and an environmentally conscious person may be unhappy work- ing for Exxon because the philosophies of the individual and the organization are not the same. As shown in Table ., meta-analysis results indicate that this incompatibility in philosophies and values can cause stress, lower job satisfaction, and increased turnover (Kristof-Brown, Zimmerman, & Johnson, ).

The management philosophy of an organization may not meet the expec- tations of some individuals. A person who works best in a very structured environment (e.g., the military) in which everyone must follow a chain of com- mand may not work well in a team-oriented environment where the workers have the opportunity to make and enforce policy. Incompatibilities between personal and management philosophies can quickly become a stressor (Atkinson, ). Other stressors include the relationships between supervisors and employees. If an employee’s expectation of that relationship differs from the supervisor’s, not only will stress result, but conflict between the parties will inevitably arise.