---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2ba253e6567b2668279c06bea04202a7abd0c671
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# end of this chapter. When individuals work together in groups or in formal teams, there is always potential for conflict. Conflict is the psychological and behavioral reaction to a perception that another person is either keeping you from reaching a goal, taking group behavior, teams, and conflict 497 Conflict can occur when working with others. 498 chapter  away your right to behave in a particular way, or violating the expectancies of a relationship. For example, Bob might perceive that Lakisha is trying to get the promotion that is “rightfully his” (keeping him from his goal), Andrea might perceive that Jon is trying to pressure her to hire a particular applicant (taking away the right to behave in a particular way), or Carlos might perceive that when Jill goes to lunch with her male colleagues she is violating their agreement not to date other people (violation of a relationship expectation). It is important to note that one of the key components to conflict is perception. For example, two people may share the same goals, but if one person perceives that their goals are different, the possibility of conflict increases. Thus, conflict is often the result of one person’s misperception of another’s goals, intentions, or behavior. Because conflict can often be attributed to misperceptions, an important part of conflict resolution is for each party to discuss his or her perceptions of a situation. The level of conflict that occurs is a function of the importance of the goal, behavior, or relationship. That is, one person’s behavior may force a change in another’s, but if the change in behavior is not important to the individual (e.g., waiting in line for a few minutes), conflict will be less severe than in a situation in which the change is important (e.g., a promotion or a person’s reputation). On the basis of a meta-analysis by De Dreu and Weingart (), we are pretty safe in saying that most conflict results in lower team performance and lower member satisfaction. This dysfunctional conflict keeps people from work- ing together, lessens productivity, spreads to other areas, and increases turnover. Dysfunctional conflict usually occurs when one or both parties feel a loss of control due to the actions of the other party and has its greatest effect on team performance when the task being performed is complex. Though most conflict is dysfunctional, there are times when a moderate degree of conflict can result in better performance. Called functional conflict, moderate levels of conflict can stimulate new ideas, increase friendly competition, and increase team effectiveness (Jehn & Mannix, ; Jeong, ). Furthermore, moderate con- flict can reduce the risk of much larger conflicts. s e g a m y t t e G / c s i D o t o h P © Types of Conﬂ ict Interpersonal Confl ict Interpersonal conflict occurs between two individuals. In the workplace, interpersonal conflict might occur between two coworkers, a supervisor and a subordinate, an employee and a customer, or an employee and a vendor. Individual–Group Confl ict Conflict can occur between an individual and a group just as easily as between two individuals. Individual–group conflict usually occurs when the individu- al’s needs are different from the group’s needs, goals, or norms. For example, a Marine might want more independence than the Corps will give him, a basket- ball player might want to shoot when the team needs him to set picks, a faculty member might be more interested in teaching when his university wants him to publish, and a store employee might be more interested in customer relations when the store wants him to concentrate on sales. Group–Group Confl ict The third type of conflict occurs between two or more groups. In academia, such group–group conflict occurs annually as departments fight for budget allocations and space. In industry, company divisions often conflict for the same reasons. A good example of group–group conflict occurred between two branches of the same bank located in the same town. The branches competed for customers not only with other banks but with each other. To make matters worse, the two branches were to be consolidated, so their staffs were involved in even more conflict as they tried to establish who would be in charge of the new and unified branch. Causes of Conﬂ ict Competition for Resources In the marketplace, when customer demand exceeds product supply, prices increase. Similarly, in groups, when demand for a resource exceeds its supply, conflict occurs. This is often true in organizations, especially when there is not enough money, space, personnel, or equipment to satisfy the needs of every person or every group. A good example of this cause of conflict, competition for resources, occurs annually when Congress decides on the nation’s budget. With only limited tax revenues and many worthy programs, tough choices must be made. But often, instead of working together to solve the country’s problems, our representatives come into conflict over whose favorite programs will be funded. Another example of this competition occurs in colleges and universities across the country. There are probably few universities where parking and office spaces are not a problem. Faculty and students argue about who gets the parking spaces, and once that argument is settled, seniors and juniors argue over what is left. I once belonged to an organization that initially had no conflict over resources because there were none to fight over. There were no extra offices, no equipment, and no supplies. Organization members even had to supply their own paper! After several years, however, the organization received a large amount of money and a new building with plenty of space. But as expected, conflict increased. All the employees wanted more space, their own printers, and so on. What had group behavior, teams, and conflict 499 500 chapter  once been a very cohesive group was now characterized by conflict because of competition for new resources. Task Interdependence Another cause of conflict, task interdependence, comes when the performance of some group members depends on the performance of other group members. For example, a group is assigned to present a research report. The person who is assigned to type the report cannot do his job unless he can read what others have written, the person assigned to write the conclusion cannot do so until others have written their sections, and no member of the group is finished until every member has completed the assigned work. Conflict caused by task interdependence is especially likely when two groups who rely on each other have conflicting goals. For example, the production depart- ment in a factory wants to turn out a high volume of goods, whereas the quality control department wants the goods to be of high quality. Neither department can do its job without the help of the other, yet a production department with high quantity goals probably will have lower quality standards than those desired by quality control. By insisting on high quality, the quality control department is forcing the production department to slow down. When this happens, conflict is likely to occur. Jurisdictional Ambiguity A third cause of conflict, jurisdictional ambiguity, is found when geographical boundaries or lines of authority are unclear. For example, two employees might argue over whose job it is to get the mail, two supervisors might fight over who is in charge when the vice-president is out of town, or two secretaries might disagree about who controls the conference room. When lines of authority are not clear, conflict is most likely to result when new situations and relationships develop. Thus, to some extent, turf wars can be avoided through the use of thor- ough job descriptions and up-to-date organizational charts. On an international level, jurisdictional ambiguity is a cause for many wars and conflicts. For example, in , Russia invaded Georgia in part over disputed territory, in the early s Iraq invaded Kuwait under the pretense that Kuwait actually belonged to Iraq, and in the s, England and Argentina fought over who had the right to the Falkland Islands. In cities, jurisdictional ambiguity is often a cause for gang wars. Communication Barriers Communication barriers are the fourth cause of conflict. The barriers to inter- personal communication can be physical, such as separate locations on different floors or in different buildings; cultural, such as different languages or different customs; or psychological, such as different styles or personalities. An in-depth discussion of the communication process can be found in Chapter . Beliefs A fifth cause of conflict is the belief systems of individuals or groups. Conflict is most likely to occur when individuals or groups believe that they: 7 7 7 are superior to other people or groups have been mistreated by others are vulnerable to others and are in harm’s way 7 7 cannot trust others are helpless or powerless (Eidelson & Eidelson, ) Personality A sixth cause of conflict can be found in the personalities of the people involved. Conflict is often the result of people with incompatible
