# How Teams Develop

In an influential theory of team development, Tuckman () proposed that teams typically go through four developmental phases: forming, storming, norm- ing, and performing. In the forming stage, team members get to know each other and decide what roles each member will play. During the early part of this stage, team members are on their best behavior as they try to impress and get along with the other team members. Team members are often excited about the poten- tial to accomplish something but are also anxious about working with others in a team. During the later part of this stage, the team concentrates on clarifying its mission, determining the goals it wants to accomplish, deciding on the tasks to be done to accomplish their goals, setting rules and procedures, and developing alternative courses of action to reach their goals (Marks, Mathieu, & Zaccaro, ). A meta-analysis by Salas, Mullen, Rozell, and Driskell () indicates that formal team building (training on how to be a team) that focuses on role clarifica- tion will slightly improve team performance.

During the storming stage, the good behavior disappears. On an individual level, team members often become frustrated with their roles, show the stress of balancing their previous duties with their new team responsibilities, and question whether they have the ability to accomplish the goals set in the forming stage. Interpersonally, team members begin to disagree with one another and to challenge each other’s ideas. It is from this tension and conflict that the team often gets the energy to perform well in later stages.

During the norming stage, the team works toward easing the tension from the storming stage. Team members begin to acknowledge the reality of the team by accepting the team leader and working directly with other team members to solve difficulties. At this point, team members have either accepted their initial roles or made adjustments to roles for which they are better suited.

In the performing stage, the team begins to accomplish its goals. Group members make innovative suggestions, challenge one another without defensive responses, and participate at high levels. During this stage, the team continually monitors its progress toward goals, determines additional resources that might be needed, provides assistance and feedback to team members, and makes neces- sary strategic adjustments (Marks et al., ).

Although this theory of team development is commonly used, as one would imagine, there is tremendous variation in how a given team will develop. An alternate theory, called punctuated equilibrium, suggests that rather than forming in stages, teams develop direction and strategy in the first meeting, follow this direction for a period of time, and then drastically revise their strategy about half way through the life of the team (Gersick, ).