# Physical Ability

Physical ability tests are often used for jobs that require physical strength and stamina, such as police officer, firefighter, and lifeguard. Physical ability is mea- sured in one of two ways: job simulations and physical agility tests. With a job simulation, applicants actually demonstrate job-related physical behaviors. For example, firefighter applicants might climb a ladder and drag a -pound hose  feet across a street, police applicants might fire a gun and chase down a suspect, and lifeguard applicants might swim  yards and drag a drowning victim back to shore. Though job simulations are highly content valid, from a financial or safety perspective they are often impractical (Hoover, ).

Testing the physical ability of police applicants is an excellent example of this impracticality. Job analyses consistently indicate that the physical requirements of police officers can be divided into two categories: athletic and defensive. Athletic requirements are easy to simulate because they involve such behaviors as running, crawling, and pulling. Defensive requirements, however, are difficult to safely and accurately simulate because they involve such behaviors as applying restraining holds, kicking, and fending off attackers. One can imagine the liability and safety problems of physically attacking applicants to see if they could defend themselves. Because of the difficulty in using simulations to measure these last types of behaviors, physical ability tests are used. Instead of simulating defensive behav- iors, tests are developed that measure the basic abilities needed to perform these behaviors. Tests commonly used to measure the abilities needed to perform defensive behaviors include push-ups, sit-ups, and grip strength. Research has shown that there are nine basic physical abilities (Fleishman & Reilly, b):

7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7

dynamic strength (strength requiring repetitions) trunk strength (stooping or bending over) explosive strength (jumping or throwing objects) static strength (strength not requiring repetitions) dynamic flexibility (speed of bending, stretching, twisting) extent flexibility (degree of bending, stretching, twisting) gross body equilibrium (balance) gross body coordination (coordination when body is in motion) stamina (ability to exert effort over long periods of time)

Because physical ability tests have tremendous adverse impact against women (Arvey, Nutting, & Landon, ; Hoover, ; Mijares, ), they have been criticized on three major points: job relatedness, passing scores, and the time at which they should be required.