# the

practitioners, of JDM theories and methods. Sumneret al.(2010) present convincing evi- dence that JDM is greatly underrepresented in traditional IOOB graduate training cur- ricula. As they say, ‘‘If there is no training, then there can be very little integration of the two ﬁelds.’’ Sumner et al. therefore argue that, ‘‘because JDM is so important for truly understanding organizational behavior andindividual behaviorinorganizations, all [IOOB graduate] programs should involve at least basic training in its methods, mod- they els, and applications.’’ provide several concrete recommendations to achieve this. The reader may not be sur- prised to learn that we concur completely. We heartily endorse Sumner et al.’s rec- ommendations, and we add that several teaching resources of potential use to IOOB are provided by the Society for Judgment and Decision Making at http://sjdm.org/ syllabi.

Importantly,

The ﬁnal barrier discussed at some length in the commentaries is a set of institutional and personal factors that facilitate inertia. For example, Reb (2010) rightly notes that being well versed in two ﬁelds is a difﬁcult endeavor and that breadth of knowledge can come at the cost of depth of knowledge. In a related vein, Connolly (2010) remarks that deviating from one’s research agenda to pursue interdisciplinary work may be a less-than-appealing proposition for many researchers whose time is already a scarce commodity.

It was not our intention to discount the power of these ‘‘mundane incentives’’ (as Connolly, 2010, calls them)—they are a the potentially serious impediment. Yet, integration we propose need not imme- diately involve dramatic paradigm shifts but instead could begin with incremental steps toward common ground. Moreover, we believe that the gains to science- and evidence-based practice from cross- fertilization are sufﬁciently substantial as to warrant an active attempt to reorient these mundane incentives such that they aid, or at least do not actively obstruct, interdisci- plinary research.