# Owl vomit collector

refer to as the “John Travolta method.” If you will recall from those classic films Saturday Night Fever and Urban Cowboy, John Travolta had boring jobs (as a paint store employee in Fever and as an oil refinery worker in Urban Cowboy) but made his life meaningful through his dancing. Now I’m not suggesting that disco and line dancing are the solutions to life’s problems (although they are a good start). Instead, I am suggesting that an employee’s needs can be met in a variety of nonwork activities such as hobbies and volunteer work. A mistake we have made for years has been to assume that a job must satisfy all of a person’s needs. Instead, an organization should work toward fulfilling those needs that it can and should help employees find alternative avenues to meet their other needs.

An interesting study by Judge () demonstrates the importance of indi- vidual differences. Judge had more than  nurses in a medical clinic complete a questionnaire tapping their propensity to gripe about things in everyday life and also asking them to indicate how satisfied they were with their jobs. Judge then compared the nurses’ levels of job satisfaction with whether or not they quit their jobs with the clinic over the next ten months. The results of this study indicated that for the people who griped about everything in life, there was no significant relationship between satisfaction and turnover (r = −.); however, for the nurses who were not chronic gripers, satisfaction was significantly correlated with turn- over (r = −.). In other words, people who are unhappy in life and unhappy on their jobs will not leave their jobs, because they are used to being unhappy. But for people who are normally happy in life, being unhappy at work is seen as a reason to find another job. To get an idea about your own tendency to be satisfied with work and life, complete Exercise . in your workbook.