# Takingworkplacedecisionsseriously

and selects models based on what appears most useful in each case. The former approach facilitates the accumulation of knowledge (e.g., Pfeffer, 1993), whereas the latter facilitates the examination of a broader set of problems. We also main- tained that, the two philo- sophical approaches should be viewed as complementary rather than immiscible.

in our view,

The commentaries advance this dis- cussion on two fronts. First, Hayes and Wooldridge (2010) observe that the dis- organized state of the JDM literature is a major challenge to integrating its ﬁndings into IOOB. Indeed, they liken the state of JDM to the pre-Big Five state of the per- sonality literature. A related issue is that, as Sumner, Bragger, Om, and Malandruccolo (2010) note, the JDM literature is spread across many academic disciplines, which hampers summarization. We would like to see decision-making researchers make more of an effort to integrate that ﬁeld via broad-level reviews, perhaps structured around fundamental questions (e.g., what constitutes a good decision?). Nonetheless, as we discussed in our focal article, JDM researchers have already identiﬁed several useful mid-level normative (and descrip- tive) models—and we argued that IOOB would beneﬁt from a greater focus on nor- mative models. Second, commentators note that more attention needs to be paid by JDM researchers to individual differences as ‘‘valid variance rather than error vari- ance’’ (Hayes & Wooldridge, 2010; see also Goodwin, 2010). We agree completely (as we noted in our focal article), and we point readers to a recent paper on this topic by one of us (Mohammed & Schwall, 2009). However, as Weiss and Adler (1984) have noted, the laboratory may well constitute a ‘‘strong’’ situation in which the impact of individual differences is muted (see also Meyer, Dalal, & Hermida, 2010). Thus, the study of individual differences in decision making may be more proﬁtable in ﬁeld sit- uations or indeed in laboratory situations deliberately designed to be ‘‘weaker’’ than usual.