# PAST

to stress include hair loss. Although we are supposed to lose several strands of hair a day, which are replaced by new hair, hair that falls out in clumps is often your body’s way of signaling high amounts of stress.

Stress has been labeled the “silent killer” because, as you have already read, it can quietly chip away at your immune system, thereby weakening your body’s ability to prevent or fight off illnesses and diseases. It is often the source of escalating blood pressure, heart attacks, strokes, or worse: death. Stress may also increase the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis because the hormones released in response to stress can cause swelling in the joints (Carpi, ). In fact, research suggests that %–% of all illnesses, such as coronary heart disease, can be attributed to stress. Even minor ailments such as recurring colds can be attrib- uted to recent stressful events.

Depression is another health problem associated with stress. Most of us expe- rience some form of depression from time to time. Usually, a good night’s sleep or being with friends and family will lift that depression. Sometimes a few visits to a counselor who can help us sort out our feelings and put things in perspective is helpful. Long-term stress, however, can eventually lead to clinical depression, which often requires medical treatment. In addition, prolonged depression has effects on the body such as stroke-triggering clots, hypertension, and high heart rates (Elias, ). Early diagnosis and treatment of depression is the key to managing it. If you feel you are suffering from depression, you may want to consult the counseling center at your college. Or, if your town has a public mental health agency, contact them. Any visit you make to a counselor is confidential.

Organizational Consequences Job Performance Studies show that in general, high levels of stress reduce performance on many tasks. However, as mentioned earlier, a curvilinear relationship between stress and job performance may exist in that moderate levels of stress actually improve productivity, increase energy levels, and heighten creativity (Muse, Harris, & Field, ).

Burnout Burnout, the state of being overwhelmed by stress, is usually experienced by highly motivated professionals faced with high work demands. Initial studies on burnout targeted people in the health care field as employees most likely to expe- rience burnout. But over the years, the definition has expanded to include other types of workers who become emotionally exhausted and no longer feel they have a positive impact on other people or their job. People who feel burned out lack energy and are filled with frustration and tension. Emotional symptoms of burn- out include dreading coming to work each day (Cordes & Dougherty, ). As shown in Table ., behavioral signs may include cynicism toward coworkers, clients, and the organization. People who are burned out display detachment toward the people (e.g., clients) with whom they work. Eventually, they may become depressed and respond to burnout through absenteeism, turnover, and lower performance (Parker & Kulik, ).

Absenteeism and Turnover Absenteeism and turnover, resulting in loss of productivity and subsequently revenues, are highest during times of burnout and increased stress as employees struggle to deal with physical and emotional ailments. About .% of the work- force is absent each day in the United States and % of absenteeism is attributed to stress (Commerce Clearing House, ). With this in mind, the question then becomes: Is this absenteeism due to illness brought about by stress or does it rep- resent “mental health days,” in which employees miss work to take a break from stress? From a study by Heaney and Clemans (), it appears that the stress/ illness relationship best explains absenteeism. Such absenteeism costs employers billions of dollars a year in lost productivity and is thought to be a warning sign of intended turnover (Mitra, Jenkins, & Gupta, ).

Interestingly, even when employees take a “mental health day,” the strategy apparently is not highly effective. In a study of hospital nurses, Hackett and Bycio () found that stress was lowered immediately following a day of absence but that taking a day off had no longer-term effects.