data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk1764.md, before:

## Step : Communicate Appraisal Results to Employees

As was stated in the beginning of this chapter, perhaps the most important use of performance-evaluation data is to provide feedback to the employee and assess her strengths and weaknesses so that further training can be implemented. Although this feedback and training should be an ongoing pro- cess, the semiannual evaluation might be the best time to formally discuss employee performance. Furthermore, holding a formal review interview places the organization on better legal ground in the event of a lawsuit (Foster et al., ; Malos, ).

Normally, in most organizations a supervisor spends a few minutes with employees every  months to tell them about the scores they received during the most recent evaluation period. This process is probably the norm because most managers do not like to judge others; because of this dislike, they try to complete the evaluation process as quickly as possible (Grensing-Pophal, b).

Furthermore, seldom does evaluating employees benefit the supervisor. The best scenario is to hear no complaints, and the worst scenario is a lawsuit. In fact, one study demonstrated that dissatisfaction and a decrease in organiza- tional commitment occurs even when an employee receives an evaluation that is “satisfactory” but not “outstanding” (Pearce & Porter, ). Finally, in the “tell and sell” approach to performance appraisal interviews, a supervisor “tells” an employee everything she has done poorly and then “sells” her on ways she can improve. This method, however, accomplishes little.

Research suggests that certain techniques can be used to make the perfor-

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk1764.md, after:

---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3f5f7bc7b362eb02399be18527a9c0233b152279
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
## Stress increases rating errors (Srinivas & Motowidlo, 1987).

Raters rate employees of same race higher than employees of a different race (Kraiger & Ford, 1985; Pulakos, White, Oppler, & Borman, 1989).

Behavior rated

raters who were not under stress. This finding is important because performance evaluations are often conducted hurriedly, as supervisors evaluate employee performance so they can return to their “real” work. Methods for reducing this problem will be discussed later in this chapter.

Bias. Raters who like the employees being rated may be more lenient (Lefkowitz, ; Varma, DeNisi, & Peters, ) and less accurate in their ratings than would

evaluating employee performance

269

raters who neither like nor dislike their employees (Cardy & Dobbins, ). But this does not mean that a person who is liked will always receive higher ratings than someone who is disliked. The rater may overcompensate in an effort to be “fair.” The rater’s feelings, or affect, toward an employee may interfere with the cognitive processing of actual performance information.

Research on the presence of racial bias in performance evaluations is both controversial and mixed. Two reviews of the literature (Landy, Shankster, & Kohler, ; Latham & Wexley, ) concluded that racial biases do not play a significant role in performance appraisals. A meta-analysis of  studies by Kraiger and Ford () found a racial similarity bias in that White raters gave higher performance ratings to White employees, and African American raters gave higher ratings to African American employees. Interestingly, this bias occurred only with studies involving real organizations—laboratory research seldom revealed racial bias in performance ratings. Complicating this issue is a study by Stauffer and Buckley () arguing that much of the research in this area is flawed and that when the proper method (repeated measures) is used, evidence of racial bias in performance ratings exists.

A meta-analysis by Bowen, Swim, and Jacobs () and a large data set of -degree feedback ratings by Church, Rogelberg, and Waclawski () suggest that gender bias does not seem to be an issue in performance ratings. Meta-analysis results also indicate that age is not related to performance ratings (Ng & Feldman, ).
