# Consequences of Empowerment

As shown in Table ., being at a higher level of control/input has many positive aspects. For example, research indicates that increased empowerment typically results in increased job satisfaction for employees in the United States, Mexico, and Poland but not for employees in India (Robert, Probst, Martocchio, Drasgow, & Lawler, ). The increased responsibility can result in higher skill levels, which in turn can result in higher pay, increased job security, and increased potential to find other employment. However, empowerment can have its downside. With increased responsibility comes increased stress. With the power to make deci- sions comes the risk of making bad ones and thus being fired or denied a promo- tion. Thus, it is not surprising that some employees resist efforts to empower them or their teams (Maynard, Mathieu, Marsh, & Ruddy, ).

One of the things that is true throughout life is that people are different, and not everything affects everyone the same way. For example, imagine that we place all of the employees in a fast-food restaurant at the absolute level in mak- ing decisions such as when to comp drinks or a meal if the service is slow or the food is bad or when to allow customers to make substitutions. For many of these employees, this authority will be welcome, as it reduces the time taken to get permission from a supervisor and provides them with a sense of power. However, for some employees, the increased stress of making acceptable decisions far out- weighs any feelings of so-called empowerment.