data/clean/industrial_and_organizational_psychology_3_2010_386_405__chunk0017.md, before:

# JudgmentsVersusDecisions

The term judgment typically involves a rating or evaluation of the value or attractiveness of a person, an object, an event, a course of action, or some other phenomenon (Bonner, 1999; Maule & Svenson, 1993). A judgment may be a prediction regarding the future or an assessment of the present (Bonner, 1999). For example, a manager may make a judgment about a subordinate’s overall level of job performance on the basis that subordinate’s task performance, of organizational citizenship behavior, and counterproductive work behavior over the previous year.

A common theoretical approach to studying judgment the lens model is (Brunswik, 1955). Many IOOB researchers and practitioners are likely to already be familiar with the lens model, but, brieﬂy,

the model may be summarized as follows: ‘‘A person’s ability to predict the world is completely determined by how well the world can be predicted from the available data ..., how consistently the person uses the available data ..., and how well the personunderstands theworld ...’’(Doherty, 2003, p. 653). In other words, for a prespec- iﬁed set of cues, the researcher can deter- mine, typically via multiple regression, not only the actual cue–criterion relationships in the environment but also the mental rep- resentation of cue–criterion relationships on the part of a human judge.

In contrast, the term decision refers to the choice between various alternatives, which may be people, objects, events, courses of action, and so forth (Maule & Svenson, 1993). For example, a manager may choose to promote one employee from a workgroup. The terms decision and choiceare often used interchangeably, though, as we will discuss in a later stage in the article, decision making is actually a broader process that the choice stage just encompasses not but also prechoice stages (e.g., generating the alternatives among which one will subsequently choose) and postchoice stages (e.g., commitment to the choice). Moreover, although this view is increasingly falling out of favor, many JDM researchers have historically viewed judgments pertaining to each alternative individually as a necessary precursor to a subsequent choice between these alternatives (Bonner, 1999). For example, the aforementioned manager may choose to promote the highest-performing (in his or her judgment) employee from the workgroup.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/industrial_and_organizational_psychology_3_2010_386_405__chunk0017.md, after:

---
source_path: industrial_and_organizational_psychology_3_2010_386_405.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 75f96e6f6456742ed53807f633269d7fb75ab32f
title: industrial_and_organizational_psychology_3_2010_386_405
---
# I–Opsychologyandworkplacedecisions

thought provoking to IOOB researchers and practitioners. We therefore delib- erately do not provide an exhaustive overview of the JDM literature (for examples of more comprehensive reviews, albeit with diverse emphases, see Bazerman & Moore, 2008; Highhouse, 2001; Stevenson, Busemeyer, & Naylor, 1990). We do, how- ever, touch brieﬂy upon some topics that fall outside the realm of the traditional JDM literature (e.g., naturalistic and strate- gic decision making) because we believe relevance to them to be of particular IOOB. We have structured this overview on the basis of several themes—namely, judgments versus decisions, a focus on internal versus external validity, levels of analysis, applied implications, and philo- sophical approaches—collected from mul- tiple extant sources (e.g., Doherty, 2003; Maule & Svenson, 1993; Pliske & Klein, 2003; Solomon & Shields, 1995). The main message of this section is that decision- making researchers have studied a wide variety of topics relevant to IOOB; however, they have typically done so using different perspectives and methods than those used in mainstream IOOB.
