data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk1340.md, before:

# Rejecting Applicants

Once a decision has been made regarding which applicants will be hired, those who will not be hired must be notified. Rejected applicants should be treated well because they are potential customers and potential applicants for other positions that might become available in the organization (Koprowski, ; Waung & Brice, ). In fact, Aamodt and Peggans () found that applicants who were rejected “properly” were more likely to continue to be a customer at the organization and to apply for future job openings.

A good example of this was provided in a letter to the editor of HR Maga- zine by HR professional Jim Reitz who was treated poorly on two different occa- sions when applying for a job with an employment agency. When he became a HR manager with a large company, one of the first things he did was contact the employment agency to notify it that his company would not be doing business with it due to the way in which he had been treated as an applicant. Reitz pointed out that his new company spends over a million dollars on temps and the employ- ment agency would get none of it.

What is the best way to reject an applicant? The most interesting rejection letter I have seen came from Circuit City about  years ago. At the bottom of the letter was a sentence stating that you could take the rejection letter to any Circuit City store within the next  days and get a % discount. Imagine the clerk calling for assistance over the store intercom; “We have a rejected applicant on Register , could a manager please come and approve the discount?”

I remember getting a rejection letter from a graduate school back in  stating that they had  people apply and that my application lacked the quality to get past the department clerk! They were kind enough to wish me success in my career.

Clearly the above two examples are not best practices. So, what is? Aamodt and Peggans () found that rejection letters differ to the extent that they con- tain the following types of responses:

7 7

7 7

7 7 7

A personally addressed and signed letter The company’s appreciation to the applicant for applying for a position with the company A compliment about the applicant’s qualifications A comment about the high qualifications possessed by the other applicants Information about the individual who was actually hired A wish of good luck in future endeavors A promise to keep the applicant’s resume on file

Though research has not clearly identified the best way to write a rejection

letter, the following guidelines are probably a good place to start.

7

Send rejection letters to applicants. Though most organizations do not do this (Brice & Waung, ), failure to send a letter results in applicants feeling negatively toward an organization (Waung & Brice,

employee selection: references and testing

197

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk1340.md, after:

---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: dd0a217679b348486f3da967a199452e4c6818f7
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# Legal Issues

As you might recall from Chapter , methods used to select employees are most prone to legal challenge when they result in adverse impact, invade an applicant’s privacy, and do not appear to be job related (lack face validity). As shown in Table ., cognitive ability and GPA will result in the highest levels of adverse impact, whereas integrity tests, references, and personality inventories will result in the lowest levels (in viewing this table, you might want to review the concept of d scores and effect sizes discussed in Chapter ). In terms of face validity, applicants perceive interviews, work samples/simulations, and résumés as being the most job related/fair, and they

196

chapter 

view graphology, biodata, and personality tests as being the least job related/fair (Rynes & Connerley, ; Smither et al., ; Steiner & Gilliland, ).
