# Deﬁ nition of a Group In reviewing the books written on group dynamics, it quickly becomes clear that there is no agreed-upon definition of a group. Some experts use a general defini- tion that basically defines a group as two or more people who perceive themselves as a group and interact in some way. Other definitions require that a group must involve some degree of structure and permanency. I prefer the definition used by Gordon (), who believes that for a collection of people to be called a group, the following four criteria must be met: (a) The members of the group must see themselves as a unit; (b) the group must provide rewards to its members; (c) any- thing that happens to one member of the group affects every other member; and (d) the members of the group must share a common goal. Multiple Members Who Perceive Themselves as a Unit The first criterion is that the group must have multiple members. Obviously, one person does not constitute a group (even if he is a multiple personality). There- fore, at least two people are necessary to form a group. Usually we refer to two people as a dyad, to  people as a triad, and to  to  people as a small group (Forsyth, ). To be considered a group, these two or more people must also see themselves as a unit. Thus, three individuals walking down the sidewalk would be considered a group only if they knew one another and were together. Eight separate customers shopping at a store would not be considered a group. Group Rewards The second group criterion is that membership must be rewarding for each indi- vidual in the group. In the next section, we will discuss the reasons people join groups, but for now it is important to remember that people will join or form a group only if it provides some form of reward. To demonstrate this point, imagine four students studying for an exam. If the four study in separate rooms and do not share information, they are not a group. Likewise, consider if the same four people sat at one desk in the library. If each person studies the book separately and never communicates with the other three, then the four still will not be a group because none of the individuals is rewarded by the others. But if none of the four would have otherwise studied independently, then the four students would be considered a group because being together was rewarding. Even though they did not talk with one another during their time in the library, the fact that they were together provided the structure for each of them to study. Corresponding Eff ects The third group criterion is that an event that affects one group member should affect all group members. That is, if something significant happens to one per- son and does not affect any of the other people gathered with her, then the collection of people cannot be considered a group. This requirement is called corresponding effects. For example, suppose five bank tellers work side by side, and one teller becomes ill and goes home. If the activities of the other four change as a result of one teller leaving, the five might be considered a group. But if the activities of the other four do not change after one teller leaves, then the tellers cannot be considered a group. Common Goals The fourth and final criterion is that all members must have a common goal. In the teller example, if the goal of one of the tellers is to meet only young, single customers and the goal of another teller is to serve as many customers as pos- sible, the tellers are not considered to be a group because they work in different ways and for different reasons. Why do we care if a collection of people meets the technical definition of a group? The answer lies within your ability to change employee performance. Over the course of this chapter, you will learn many factors affecting group per- formance. If you apply what you learn, you will be effective in changing perfor- mance only if the collection of individuals is actually a group. Reasons for Joining Groups Assignment In the workplace, the most common reason for joining groups is that employees are assigned to them. For example, a new employee might be assigned to a depart- ment with five other employees, five employees might be appointed to serve on a committee, and ten employees are scheduled for the same training class. Physical Proximity One especially strong reason that a person might join a particular group, espe- cially if the group is informal, is physical proximity (Forsyth, ). That is, peo- ple tend to form groups with people who either live or work nearby. For example, think of the intramural teams on your campus. Most teams consist of students who live in the same residence halls or have classes together. At work, employees tend to form groups that consist of those who work in the same general area. And, some employees seek close physical proximity to people in power, hoping they will become part of an elite group. The “bomber wing” provides an interesting example of how physical proximity can create an unlikely group. The bomber wing was a small section of the federal maximum security prison in Florence, Colorado, whose  residents included Ted Kaczynski (the Unabomber), Ramzi Yousef (World Trade Center bomber), and Timothy McVeigh (Oklahoma City bomber). Though the three had access to group behavior, teams, and conflict 475 476 chapter  one another for only two hours a week and had to shout across the hall to com- municate, they formed quite the social group. Without this proximity, it is unlikely that the three would ever have belonged to the same group (Chua-Eoan, ). Affi liation Affiliation involves our need to be with other people. Thus, one reason people join groups is to be near and talk to other people. Research has demonstrated that our need for affiliation is very strong. Mayo (), for example, found that employees at a textile plant who worked separately from other employees were not as satisfied with their jobs as were employees at the same plant who had the opportunity to work with others. Likewise, Burling, Lentz, and Wilson () found that turnover rates in a hospital could be reduced by assigning maids to work in teams rather than alone. Perhaps the most interesting demonstrations of the strength of the human affiliation need come from the writings of Schein () and Naughton (). These researchers were interested in the reasons American prisoners of war (POWs) in World War II behaved so differently from those in the Korean and Vietnam conflicts. POWs in World War II made more escape attempts, suffered fewer deaths, and provided information less frequently to the enemy than did their counterparts in Korea and Vietnam. Although the American public attributed the differences to a postwar decline in the American character (Hampton, Summer, & Webber, ), both Schein and Naughton pointed out the differences from a per- spective of group dynamics. In World War II, the POWs were kept in groups that remained together for long periods of time. Thus, these men were able to receive emotional support from one another, they could work together to plan escapes, they were able to hear what each POW said to the enemy, and they knew about and supported a strong group norm about not talking to the enemy. In the two post-World War II Asian conflicts, the situations were entirely different. Rather than living in groups, these POWs were isolated and not allowed to communi- cate with one another. Naughton () reports that the men were so in need of contact and communication with others that they scraped their cell walls to make noise and establish contact and informal communication with one another. This behavior is similar to that reported by hostages held in Beirut and Syria. If people are not allowed the opportunity for affiliation, they make attempts to secure at least minimal contact. When even minimal contact is not possible, morale and perhaps even the will to live are lessened. Such is the concern about the new supermaximum prisons being built for inmates who behave violently while incarcerated. In these prisons, inmates spend  hours a day alone in con- crete stalls without air conditioning. There are no books, magazines, or televi- sion and only minimal contact with guards. During the remaining hour each day, inmates are placed alone in an -by -foot cage where they can pace or toss a basketball at an iron hoop. As one might imagine, prisoners’ rights advocates are concerned about the long-term effects of such isolation. Similar concerns were expressed after several suspected al-Qaeda terrorists housed in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, attempted suicide in February . Of course, people are not equal in their desire or need