data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk2773.md, before:

# 7

7

7

Harry Gray, the former chair and CEO of United Technologies, demonstrated vision, risk taking, and innovation as early as the second job in his career. Ray Tower, former president of FMC Corporation, went way beyond his job description as a salesperson in his first job to create a novel sales training program. Tower continued to push his idea despite upper management’s initial lack of interest. Lee Iacocca, known for his heroics at Ford and Chrysler, pioneered the concept of new car financing. His idea of purchasing a  Ford for monthly payments of $ (“Buy a ’ for $”) moved his sales division from last in the country to first. What is most interesting about this success is that Iacocca didn’t even have the authority to implement his plan—but he did it anyway.

The role of gender in leader emergence is complex. Meta-analyses indicate that men and women emerge as leaders equally often in leaderless group discussions (Benjamin, ), men emerge as leaders more often in short-term groups and groups carrying out tasks with low social interaction (Eagly & Karau, ), and women emerge as leaders more often in groups involving high social interaction (Eagly & Karau, ). Though women often emerge as leaders, historically they have been excluded from the highest levels of leadership and power in politics and business. Thus, it is said that there is a “glass ceiling” for women in leader- ship and management. This glass ceiling is slowly breaking, as the vast majority of women leaders at the highest levels have achieved their positions since  (Carli & Eagly, ).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach__chunk2773.md, after:

---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3dd98ee923ecbcf76b0b4c4bcd31fc9309d1e189
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
# Argus & Zajack (2008)

It is especially perplexing that some of the early reviews concluded that specific traits are seldom related to leader emergence because both anecdotal evidence and research suggest that leadership behavior has some stability (Law, ). To illustrate this point, think of a friend you consider to be a leader. In all probability, that person is a leader in many situations. That is, he might influ- ence a group of friends about what movie to see, make decisions about what time everyone should meet for dinner, and “take charge” when playing sports. Conversely, you probably have a friend who has never assumed a leadership role in his life. Thus, it appears that some people consistently emerge as leaders in a variety of situations, whereas others never emerge as leaders.

Perhaps one explanation for the lack of agreement on a list of traits consis- tently related to leader emergence is that the motivation to lead is more complex than originally thought. In a study using a large international sample, Chan and Drasgow () found that the motivation to lead has three aspects (factors): affective identity, noncalculative, and social-normative. People with an affective identity motivation become leaders because they enjoy being in charge and lead- ing others. Of the three leadership motivation factors, people scoring high on this one tend to have the most leadership experience and are rated by others as having high leadership potential. Those with a noncalculative motivation seek leader- ship positions when they perceive that such positions will result in personal gain. For example, becoming a leader may result in an increase in status or in pay. Peo- ple with a social-normative motivation become leaders out of a sense of duty. For example, a member of the Kiwanis Club might agree to be the next president because it is “his turn,” or a faculty member might agree to chair a committee out of a sense of commitment to the university.

Individuals with high leadership motivation tend to obtain leadership experience and have confidence in their leadership skills (Chan & Drasgow, ). Therefore, after researching the extent to which leadership is consistent across life, it makes sense that Bruce () concluded that the best way to select a chief executive officer (CEO) is to look for leadership qualities (e.g., risk taking, innovation, vision) and success early in a person’s career. As support for his proposition, Bruce cites the following examples:
