# Learning through Job Rotation

Another excellent on-the-job training method is job rotation, in which an employee performs several different jobs within an organization. Job rotation is especially popular for managerial training because it allows a manager trainee to experience and understand most, if not all, of the jobs within the organization that his subordinates will perform.

Kroger and Wal-Mart train their assistant managers as clerks, stockers, and baggers before promotion to manager. Allstate trains its manager trainees in a similar fashion by having them spend a few months in sales, underwriting, personnel, cash control, and marketing. With job rotation, these organizations believe their managers will perform better by understanding more clearly how each employee performs his job. At Applebee’s restaurants, executives exchange positions with restaurant employees so that the executives don’t lose touch with routine problems. At Levy Restaurants in Chicago,  to  selected employees hoping to be managers spend four days at their normal job and one day working in a new area of the restaurant; % eventually get promoted. Also, chef trainees at Levy Restaurants spend their first week in the dining room, four weeks in the kitchen, and one week performing administrative tasks.

Job rotation is also commonly used to train nonmanagerial employees. Aside from increasing employee awareness, the main advantage of job rotation is that it allows for both lateral transfers within an organization and greater flexibility in replacing absent workers. For example, if two bank tellers are ill, an employee who normally approves loans is able to temporarily take over the tellers’ tasks. Increased use of work teams is making job rotation, or cross-training, much more common. Another advantage, which will be discussed in greater detail in Chapter , is that job rotation can improve job satisfaction by reducing the boredom that often comes with a task-repetitive job. Job rotation works best if a corporate trainer is assigned to supervise employees throughout the duration of their rotations (Nadler, ). Such a situation provides more stability than would occur if the employee had a different supervisor for each rotation.

An interesting innovation is taking job rotation training outside the orga- nization and encouraging employees to volunteer for worthwhile charities and nonprofit organizations (Caudron, ). For example, GATX Capitol employ- ees helped renovate a day-care center, EDS employees helped clean a local beach, and Helene Curtis employees raised funds to battle AIDS. The United Way takes advantage of corporate volunteerism through its “Loaned Executive” program, in which organizations “lend” their executives to the United Way to help raise funds. Employers report that volunteerism increases morale while also increasing employee communication, time management, and planning skills. Added ben- efits include increased respect for diversity, self-esteem, and social obligation (Caudron, ).