---
source_path: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a5ffc7b62722beb3a817e1c19795f55ef131a57b
title: industrial_organizational_psychology_an_applied_approach
---
a party at your house on Thursday at : p.m., you should also add that she is invited, or she will understand only that there is a party, and not that she has been invited. Of course, the million-dollar question is, “How can we tell what style of lis- tener is listening to us?” The best way might be to test the listener on the Attitu- dinal Listening Profile mentioned earlier, but this is hardly practical. The most practical method is to use the person’s speaking style as an indicator of listening style. If the person usually mentions how she feels about things, she is probably an empathic listener, but if she speaks with a lot of detail, she is probably a tech- nical listener. Someone speaking to a group, of course, must relate to all styles of listeners. The best communicators will have something for everyone. A good instructor will provide jokes and humorous stories for leisure listeners, use an outline for- mat and provide main points for inclusive listeners, provide specific facts and details for technical listeners, discuss her feelings about the topic for empathic listeners, have good speaking skills and appropriate dress for stylistic listeners, and be confident and accurate for nonconforming listeners. To gauge your own listening style, complete Exercises . and . in your workbook. Tips for Eff ective Listening In addition to understanding how your listening style serves as a filter, you can improve your listening effectiveness in many other ways. Below is a summary of tips taken from a variety of sources: 7 7 7 7 7 Stop talking. Let the other person finish speaking. Focus on what the person is saying rather than on how well they are saying it, what your next response will be, or what you will eat for lunch. Try to understand what the other person is trying to say. Ask questions to make sure you understand the person’s point, but don’t ask so many questions that they distract the speaker. Be patient and keep an open mind. If you disagree, you can always do so after the person is finished talking.
