data/clean/international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314__chunk0166.md, before:

# 4.4. Stress

had particular international signiﬁcance with studies conducted in the US (Shader et al., 2001), Singapore (Fang, 2001), Australia (Cowin, 2002) and Taiwan (Yin and Yang, 2002) reporting similar results. Methods used to measure stress were varied and included scales (Fang, 2001; Shader et al., 2001), written comments (Fletcher, 2001; Cowin, 2002) and meta-analysis (Yin and Yang, 2002).

Stress exerted the most substantial impact on turnover cognition (coefﬁcent standardised ¼ 0.351, po0:000) and turnover intention (coefﬁcient standardised ¼ 0.29, po0:001) of all variables measured in Fang’s (2001) study. Whilst reporting that stress explained 8.5% from a total of 41% of the variance for turnover cognition and 4.6% from a total of 32% for turnover, the speciﬁc causes of stress remained undifferentiated. This detracts from the wider focus of the study, which was to identify the most critical causes of the turnover problem in Singapore with a view to mitigating the problem. Whilst an indication that stress is a major cause is helpful for directing future research, a scale identifying speciﬁc stressors would have been helpful in ascertaining areas requiring improvement.

Shader et al’s (2001) US study partly identiﬁed particular stressors via the Job Stress Scale (Hinshaw and Atwood, 1985), a 22-item, 4-point Likert with four subscales. The mean job stress score was 2.06 (SD ¼ 0.39, range 1–4), demonstrating that nurses (n ¼ 151, levels of reported moderate RR ¼ 63%). The Anticipated Turnover Scale consisting of 12 items rated on a 5-point Likert measure (possible responses undisclosed) reﬂected individual perceptions about the possibility of leaving their current positions (mean score of 3.45, SD ¼ 1.06, range 1–7), rating their intention to leave as moderate. Pearson’s correlation analyses were performed on all major study variables. The main stressor was assessed to be lack of stability in the work schedule (constantly changing rota), with the more stable the schedule, the less work-related stress (r ¼ (cid:3)0:205, po0:001) and lower anticipated turnover (r ¼ (cid:3)0:29, po0:001). Higher job stress was also found to lower job satisfaction through the lowering of group cohesion (r ¼ (cid:3)0:41, po0:001) which then increased anticipated turnover (r ¼ 0:37, po0:001). A stepwise regression model including the variables of job satisfac- tion ((cid:3)0.35), weekend overtime (0.27), job stress (0.16) and group cohesion ((cid:3)0.13) explained 31% of the variance in anticipated turnover. Shader et al. investi- gated turnover further by looking at different age groups in relation to these factors. The ﬁndings indicated that low job satisfaction and job stress were signiﬁcant predictors of anticipated turnover for 20–30-year-old nurses (R2 ¼ 16, po0:001), low job satisfaction was a (R2 ¼ 0:31, predictor po0:001) and low job satisfaction together with low group cohesion for 41–50-year-old nurses (R2 ¼ 0:28,

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314__chunk0166.md, after:

---
source_path: international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: bd2edd7da17816c5337987d289eae193b8b5710f
title: international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314
---
# B. Coomber, K. Louise Barriball / International Journal of Nursing Studies 44 (2007) 297–314

relating to pay also included the element of job security. It is possible that this multiple question could have affected the assessment of salary satisfaction if partici- pants were satisﬁed with the security of their position and scored accordingly.

The inability to assess pay individually was also evident in Fletcher’s (2001) study. A job satisfaction subscale of the JDS (Hackman and Oldham, 1975) was used to measure pay satisfaction of US nurses (n ¼ 1780, RR ¼ 34.5%) via two items (Spearman–- Brown reliability for items on scale ¼ 0.86). The pay items were measured with a 7-point Likert scale (extremely dissatisﬁed ¼ 1, extremely satisﬁed ¼ 7) but the only result presented was that of an overall score for the subscale which consisted of 14 items. This asserted that participants were slightly satisﬁed with their jobs (mean ¼ 5.04, SD ¼ 0.99), but rendered speciﬁc results for the pay items inaccessible. Written comments from participants provided some clarity, with an expression of similar feelings to those from Cowin’s Australian (2002) study. They indicated feelings of inadequate reward for their ‘education, experience and expertise’, and unfair- ness of pay compared with other professions. Fletcher (2001) argued that the sample was likely to remain in nursing, although this conclusion was drawn on the basis of a single question providing little insight into the factors inﬂuencing participants’ responses. Generalisa- bility is compromised due to the low response rate (34.5%), and a reported demographic of nurses being represented by a ‘bargaining unit’ (type of union that negotiates salary each year) which is unrepresentative of the nursing profession in other countries.

An interesting feature of the issue of pay and resulting inﬂuence for intent to leave for nurses was reported in Rambur et al’s (2003) large US study. A gender difference affecting pay satisfaction was found during secondary analysis of self-reported data. Pay was collapsed into the category of ‘job dissatisfaction’ along with aspects such as short stafﬁng and poor manage- those intending to leave (males ¼ 23%, ment. Of females ¼ 20%), 75% of male participants were intend- ing to leave for reasons of job dissatisfaction in contrast to 51% of female participants (w2 ¼ 10:31, po0:01). In addition, male participants (53%) were more likely to be leaving due to dissatisfaction with salary than female participants (26%) (w2 ¼ 16:31, po0:01). As no statis- tically signiﬁcant results for gender differences were obtained for the majority of other categories inﬂuencing intent to leave, gender expectations and socialisation may play a particular role in pay.
