data/clean/internship_report__chunk0365.md, before:

# the following section:

HR Planning & Policy Development (cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:80) (cid:97) (cid:103) (cid:101) (cid:32) (cid:52)(cid:51)(cid:32)(cid:124) (cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32)

(cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32) (cid:32)

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/internship_report__chunk0365.md, after:

---
source_path: internship_report.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 16fa36cabdd37ac08dcfc50ed989c023b97c7c87
title: internship_report
---
# 4.1 Project Findings

The HR Planning & Policy Development of Karnaphuli Group is related with the all the

employees of different concerns of the group. The employees are the assets for the company. On

the other hand, HR department are the responsible for to develop the human resource and retain

them for the company welfare. As a result, HR policy plays a vital role for human resources

development & retention which has been discussed in previous chapters.

To learn the true picture of employee satisfaction of the HR Policy I did survey on eleven

permanent employees who are designated with executive to manager (department head). As a

result I can have the real opinion of both executives and management. In this survey I used 11

questionnaires which are attached at the bottom of the report.

The data collected from the survey was then analyzed. The outcome of analysis is discussed in
