---
source_path: international_journal_of_case_studies_in_business_it_and_education.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3751970471ac2f01a23d071e8d0e8ad9d10147b9
title: international_journal_of_case_studies_in_business_it_and_education
---
# SRINIVAS PUBLICATION

firm, according to authors' research (Colquitt et al., 2007,) [20]. To comprehend the complexity of work culture and how it affects employee outcomes, numerous models have been developed. For instance, the Clan, Adhocracy, Market, and Hierarchy forms of corporate cultures are suggested by the Competing Values Framework. Each culture type has distinctive traits and is connected to various outcomes for workers and businesses (Yu & Wu,2009). [21]. Similar to this, the Job Demands- Resources model asserts that an organization's culture can help or impede employees' capacity to meet job demands and access job resources, with corresponding positive or negative effects (Bakker & Demerouti, 2014) [22].

4.2 Employee Mental Health: Employee mental health is a topic of growing concern for employers, employees, and researchers. Research have demonstrated that mental health issues can result in unfavourable results such more absenteeism, lower productivity, and higher attrition rates. To address this issue, researchers have conducted studies on the causes, consequences, and interventions related to employee mental health. According to one research by Harvey, et al. (2017), work-related stress significantly increases the likelihood of developing mental health issues [23]. Another study by Lee, et al., (2018) shown how job instability could harm an employee's mental health. [24]. On the contrary hand, a study conducted in 2017 by Cooper & Nielsen discovered that having high levels of job autonomy and peer support at work can be beneficial for mental health [25]. The contribution of workplace interventions to improving employee mental health has been studied by a number of researchers. In a meta-analysis of workplace mental health interventions, LaMontagne et al. (2014) discovered that they can significantly improve employee mental health outcomes [26]. Similar findings were made by Lindsay, et al. (2019), who found that workplace adjustments can motivate people with mental health concerns to remain working and be productive [27]. The significance of organisational culture in fostering employee mental health has also been emphasised by research. According to a study by Aldamman, et al., (2019), elements of a supportive work environment, like a friendly team dynamic, are linked to better mental health outcomes for employees [28]. Another study by Joo and Lee (2017) discovered that an organisational culture that places a high priority on employee well-being can increase employee engagement and decrease burnout [29]. Individual-level characteristics have also been discovered to be significant predictors of employee mental health, in addition to organisational influences. For instance, Hakanen et al (2006) .'s study discovered that work engagement, which is characterised as a pleasant state of mind related to one's work, is linked to lower levels of stress and burnout [30]. Another study by Yang, et al. (2019) discovered that improved mental health outcomes are related to self-compassion, which is defined as treating oneself with love and understanding [31].

Table1: Scholarly literature on Work Culture and its Impact S. No. Focus Area

Contribution by Researcher Workplace culture is influenced by an organization's common values, philosophies, and practises. Demonstrated a strong relationship between a positive work culture and organizational performance. They argued that work culture can impact employee behaviour and, therefore, influence organizational outcomes. Examined how a supportive work culture can increase employee motivation and job satisfaction. The author also emphasized the importance of aligning organizational culture with employees' values and beliefs to promote motivation and job satisfaction. According to the report, companies may increase employee motivation by
