## 2.4.1. Best Practices According to Fulmer

The following best practices for succession planning are recommended by Fulmer (2002). The link between succession planning and business strategy. Organizations that have best succession planning practices have links between operation continuity and succession plan. This link gives succession planning the opportunity to affect the organization's long-term goals and objectives (Fulmer, 2002; Rothwell, 2010). Role of Human resources - The contribution of human resources department in the succession planning process is important, but not during the development phase. The only responsibility comes to human resources department during the implementation phase. The role of human resources is very critical during the process of workforce planning. This process involves identifying and analysing the need of human resources to meet the organization's needs (Pynes, 2004).

Role of Technology - The role of technology is very basic element in the succession planning process. Ideally, technology facilitates the process rather than becoming the focus of the process. It helps the process make it shorter, simple or even more flexible (Fulmer, 2002)." Many organizations are in a competitive race to enter e-commerce High-tech (example: video conferencing or audio teleconferencing) and online (example ; intranet or extranet)approached had a dramatic impact on succession planning practices "(Rothwell, 2010). Some organizations are in a competitive race to use technology to deliver programmes. Combining internal and external resources to deliver the programme's content could also be useful (Leskiw & Singh, 2007). Some organizations use organisation's succession management website to assess employees' current potential level, skills and experience. They use it as a reporting tool as well. Time is changing faster and classroom-based learning is getting replaced with web-based courses. High performance organizations are making range of management development courses available online (Deshwal, 2015).

International Journal of Global Optimization and Its Application Vol 1, No 1, March 2022, pp.39-48.

Identifying Talent Pools - Best practice organizations use cyclical, continuous, identification process to focus on future leaders. Organizations also use a core set of leadership and succession management competencies. Many organizations cannot find a successor in advance. In this situation organizations devote their efforts to develop strong pool of candidates, from which successor can be selected when need arises. The strongest candidate at that time becomes the successor (Fulmer, 2002; Rothwell, 2010).

Individual development Plans - The growth-oriented organizations take actions on the importance of specific and individual development plans for all employees. Individual development plans identify which developmental activities are needed and the best practice firms typically have a mechanism in place to make it simple for the employee to conduct the developmental activities (Rothwell, 2010). Typically, human resources department monitor employee's development activities (Fulmer, 2002). Leadership development programmes should focus on the skills and abilities of a leader rather than setting out a series of general steps to follow. Such steps are not always helpful because they fail to transfer to the complex realities of the workplace (Baker et al., 1997).

Fundamental development activities - Best practice partners rely on the fundamental development activities of coaching, training and development most frequently and utilize all development activities to a much greater extent than sponsor organizations (Fulmer, 2002)

Traditional education programs - In addition to traditional excessive education programmes, best practice partners increasingly use specific assignments, action learning and web-based development activities (Fulmer, 2002). The selection of special assignment chosen is supposed to present a challenge to the participant and improve their analytical ability (Deshwal, 2015).