---
source_path: international_journal_of_global.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b63061ce1ec956595795c195716c32a9dee18fc0
title: international_journal_of_global
---
## 2.1. Succession Planning and Replacement Planning

Ideally, Succession planning is a systematic approach that helps the identification of job vacancies which are vacant due to a turnover workforce or a retirement. The traditional succession planning approach has taken a replacement planning that focuses only on executive-level vacant positions. With the traditional approach, one or two successors might be identified and selected based on the feedback from their immediate supervisor and placed on the fast track into upper-level positions. Succession planning is very common for CEO positions but is undoubtedly also applicable to all other employment levels. It is concluded that succession planning is not only limited to top management.

Okwakpam (2019) defined Succession planning as a process in which organizations can make sure that staff are being hired and constantly improve their skills to fill the competent key roles in the organization. In a study by Barnett & Davis (2008), the succession planning process was defined companies recognize and establish internal individuals to fill the key job positions within the organization. Dessler (2013) identified the succession planning process in three important steps: identifying and analyzing key jobs, individual assessment, and selecting the right person for the right position. Smither et al. (2016) explained that those organizations face problems in major areas such as turnover and do not have formal succession planning. Ultimately these organizations lack the essential skills for key positions. The famous author of succession planning and management is Smither et al. (2016), who have focused definitions on all levels of organizational hierarchy. He stated succession planning is "a deliberate and systematic effort by an organization to ensure leadership continuity in key positions, retain and develop intellectual and knowledge capital for the future, and encourage individual advancement".

Sambrook (2005) identified succession planning as the attempt to plan for the right number, quality of managers and key-skilled employees to cover retirement, death, serious illness or promotion, and any new positions created in future organization plans. Even today's succession planning definition includes the organizations attempting to prepare for all management positions' transitions (Eugene Fibuch & Van Way III, 2012). Succession planning is how one or more successors are identified for key posts (Olatunji et al., 2017).

40

International Journal of Global Optimization and Its Application Vol 1, No 1, March 2022, pp.39-48.

On the other hand, researchers such as Eugene Fibuch & Van Way III, (2012) and Bano et al. (2022) divided the succession planning process into three main components. The first component is the selection of candidates based on previous experience and the formation of pool. The second component is the role of successor and third component is change management. Another study of Owolabi & Adeosun (2021) defined succession planning management as the process of evaluating the right talent in the workplace with the objective to seek answers for the three main questions relating to need for potential successor to cater organizational prolong needs, need for successor's efficiency and need for the successor's right skills and competency for future necessities of the organization.

Some organizations are confusing with the term of succession planning and change it with replacement planning. The definition of replacement planning is considered a process of identifying short-term or long-term backups so that organizations have people who can assume responsibility for critical positions during emergencies (Rothwell 2011). The short-term replacements focus on finding employees for a shorter period such as sick or on vacation. While long term replacement planning identifies employees' backups for longer period such as sudden loss of an employee. Replacement planning is essentially disaster planning in a form of is form of risk management (Rothwell 2010). Most the organizations focus the hiring process on replacement filling. Replacement planning usually identifies one individual from within the organization till they find the suitable candidate to fill the position.

The difference between succession planning and replacement is very clear. As a result, replacement planning is not a substitute for succession planning. Although, Succession planning has developed gradually into a process that can be used to identify qualified employees for current vacant positions as well as for the future. Moreover, succession planning aims to groom the talent for the future and replacement planning is more willing to fill vacancies. Finally, the active development of successors is more likely to be found in succession planning than in replacement planning (Wiesman et al., 2016). A replacement plan ensures the continuity of business operations and focuses on filling the positions within a shorter time, whereas succession planning develops a talent pool.
