## 5.2. Key outcomes and comparison over time

A negative relationship between stress and job satisfaction (po0:01) was also reported as having an important inﬂuence on turnover in the meta-analysis of nursing turnover conducted by Yin and Yang (2001). Stress was inducted as one of 12 variables related to turnover from the factors included in 13 studies under- taken in Taiwan. The second most frequently reported reason for leaving last nursing position was work stress due to high workload. In contrast, stress was ranked 6th of reasons for potentially leaving a current job. This inconsistency in rank from experienced (2) to potential (6) turnover is difﬁcult to explain, as logically it would be expected that factors would have to be important to intent to leave in order to inﬂuence turnover. This occurrence could possibly be explained by mediating factors that, perhaps, become less inﬂuential over time. For example, positive peer group relationships (ranked 2nd for potential turnover) within the workplace may buffer stress only to a certain point above which stress becomes more inﬂuential. However, another possibility may be that the retrospective measurement of reasons for turnover, with consequential reliance on partici- pants’ memory, could allow for inaccurate results. A the meta-analysis makes the combined strength of the population than sample more representative of individual samples; however, it is possible that the generalisability of these ﬁndings could be limited to hospital settings in Taiwan.

Overall, for factors relating to turnover, stress has been consistently implicated in these studies, but ambiguity towards the actual stressors responsible has been shown.

In the meta-analyses of Blegen (1993) and Irvine and Evans (1995), factors with the strongest relationships to job satisfaction were found to be related to work content and environment. This remains true for more recent research ﬁndings as can be seen by the themes high- lighted. From the four themes discussed, three were organisational factors (leadership, stress and pay) and only one an individual/demographic factor (educational attainment). This has implications for improvements in retention as organisational changes may be more easily addressed than those involving age, education and tenure for nurses already employed.