# CONCLUSION

Workforce challenges and rapidly changing environment are the key causes that banking sector need to develop strategies about managing talent within banks. Banks can take into consideration different perspective on talent management given by Blass [20]. The practices like attraction, recruitment and engagement plays an important role while managing talent in the banks. To get benefit from the competent employees and to develop employees in banks talent management must be taken under consideration. Different factors like work-life balance, learning environment and succession planning plays an important role in keeping the employees and utilizing them for company’s advantage. Effective talent management requires commitment from all stages of organization. To reshape the banks structure employee engagement is important. Organizations can well-position their place in the market by using effective workforce performance.

Talent management plays an effective role and its integration at all levels of the banks, improves performances. Hence, banks should give proper attention in attracting new employee, recruiting current employees and engaging them for the betterment of employees and companies it-self. Talent management is a relatively new concept for effective management of key employees that should be made part of company’s strategy. Organizations in developing countries like Pakistan should address this issue. Being a relatively less researched area it has a wide scope and opportunity for new researcher’s in Pakistan. Study results also shows that talent management also has positive and strong association with competitive advantage, performance and talent position within the banking sector. This study will provide i understanding of talent management concept and its importance in banking sector. Banks can utilize these results to shape their talent management practices. Study results supported by previous studies. Managerial staff can play its role to reshape the talent management strategies to improve banks performance. Banks can invest time and money in the development of better talent strategies. It masters the banks in competent employees and improves the position of the organization. Banks can utilize these results to improve their talent management mechanism to enhance their performance, to gain competitive edge and to make strong their talent positions.