---
source_path: international_journal_of_case_studies_in_business_it_and_education.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5cd9849be1ef9ad533da6f884de2d857c7203a05
title: international_journal_of_case_studies_in_business_it_and_education
---
# ABSTRACT

Purpose: This review paper's objective is to look into how workplace culture affects the results of employee mental health and well-being. The review will cover the body of research on the subject and offer a thorough grasp of the elements that influence both healthy and unhealthy workplace cultures. Methodology: The systematic search and selection of pertinent studies on workplace culture and employee mental health and well-being will be the emphasis of this review study. Several peer-reviewed academic research examine and take into account the study's theoretical foundations. The majority of the information used in this article is taken from secondary sources. Journal articles and academic research publications provide secondary data. Findings: The findings demonstrate that organisational culture has a major impact on the mental health and wellbeing of employees. Through developing supportive leadership, social support, suitable job expectations, work-life balance, and effective regulations, healthy workplace cultures that promote employee mental health and well-being can be improved. The outcomes of employee mental health and well-being, however, can be negatively impacted by unfavourable workplace cultures, which are defined by unsupportive leadership, a lack of social support, excessive job demands, a lack of work-life balance, and insufficient policies. The study also discusses opportunities for future research, such as the need to look into the potential effects of workplace culture on certain mental diseases and the moderating effects of individual traits. Originality/Value: By offering an exhaustive synthesis of the body of research on the subject, this review paper makes a significant contribution to the body of knowledge on workplace culture and employee mental wellbeing and well-being. The study report will also offer useful recommendations for businesses, decision-makers, and practitioners on how to foster supportive work environments and enhance employee mental health and wellbeing. Overall, this review paper significantly contributes to our understanding of how workplace culture affects outcomes related to employee mental health and well-being. Paper Type: Literature Review Keywords: Workplace culture, Mental health, Employee well-being, Mental health outcomes, literature survey, ABCD Analysis 1. INTRODUCTION :

Employee well-being and mental health are greatly influenced by the employment environment. According to research, an organization's workplace culture can significantly affect employees' happiness and job satisfaction [1]. Higher levels of job satisfaction and productivity can result from supportive work environments that put an emphasis on employee well-being, as well as better employee retention and organisational performance [2]. These work environments generate healthy interactions between co-workers, employee engagement, and a sense of meaning and purpose in one's work.

Elvira Monteiro., et al, (2023); www.srinivaspublication.com

PAGE 292
