data/clean/international_journal_of_managerial_studies_and_research_ijmsr__chunk0005.md, before:

## Keywords: Motivation, Employee productivity, salary, incentive

- 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1 Background of the Study Motivation, as a process, started with a need in human being which creates a vacuum in a person. In an attempt to fill the vacuum an internal driving force is generated which starts and sustains a chain of action and reaction. It is at that point that the vacuum is also filled. With this background information, Nnabuife (2009), define motivation as the internal or external driving force that produces the willingness to perform an act to a conclusive end. This first aspect of motivation we choose to describe as internal motivation because the driving force comes from within an individual. The second aspect is external motivation, is applied by the organization. This is because employees are motivated to identify with organization in order to satisfy their varied and variegates needs and desires. Until they have been identified and properly satisfied, they will never cease to impede smooth running of the organizations One of the biggest problems facing manager in the organizations is how best to get employees committed to their work and put in their best towards the accomplishment of organization’s objectives. Motivation is concerned with why people do what they do. It answers such questions as why do managers or worker go to work and do a good job. This tries to explain what motivates people to act the way they do, with primary focus on the work place. It is the primary task of the manager to create and maintain an environment in which employees can work efficiently and realize the objectives of the organization.

Employees differ not only in their ability to work but also in their will to do so (motivation). To motivate is to induce, persuade, stimulate, even compel, an employees to act in a manner which fulfilled the objectives of an organization.

©ARC Page 137

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/international_journal_of_managerial_studies_and_research_ijmsr__chunk0005.md, after:

---
source_path: international_journal_of_managerial_studies_and_research_ijmsr.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b89985d2fd6b7967f809c513c1cd439313c81be2
title: international_journal_of_managerial_studies_and_research_ijmsr
---
# Department of Hospitality Management Federal Polytechnic, Oko Anambra State, Nigeria

Abstract: This study is aimed at looking into the importance of motivation in the management of people at work, no system moves smoothly without it, and no organization achieve its objective without motivating its human resources. The study therefore is to study and come out with the effect and ways of motivating worker in organization, hence comparative study of Manufacturing firms in Nnewi, Chicason group Nig Ltd, Ibeto group of company Nig Ltd, Capital Oil and Gas Nig Ltd, Cultix Cable Nig Ltd, and Innoson Motors Nig Ltd. Descriptive and inferential statistics were used in the analysis of the data. Necessary literatures were reviewed. During the analysis of the data it was discovered that the goal of motivation is to cause people to put fourth their best efforts with enthusiasm and effectiveness in order to achieve and hopefully surpass organizational objective. It is evidence that workers of manufacturing firms in Nnewi are poorly motivated; hence low productivity. Findings from the research on productivity of manufacturing firm’s staff are reported. Two sets of questionnaires were employed in the study. One set was administered on management staff and the other on junior staff. The study reveals that salaries paid to junior staff in the company were very below the stipulations of Nigerian National Joint Industry Council. It further shows that the junior staff is rarely promoted and the junior staff prefers financial incentives than non financial incentives. The study recommended that increase in salary via promotion; overtime allowance and holiday with pay should be used as motivational tools.
