## Keywords: Succession planning; best practices; replacement planning.

Copyright: © 2022 by the publisher. Submitted for possible open access publication under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

- 1. Introduction

The practice of succession planning in private organizations is more than in public organizations. Similarly, non-profit organizations lack the formal succession planning practices effectively—the importance of succession planning within academic and business organizations (Grossman 2014). Several researchers have conducted studies about succession planning in the last decades. However, Bano et al. (2022), a French innovator, was the first scholar who identified the need for succession planning. The leading organizations have adopted formal succession planning (Mehrabani & Mohamad 2011). The most relevant study in succession planning was accomplished by (Trow 1961).

Today, the organizational system is challenged by the lack of consistent workforce planning, which has affected the strategic succession planning for top management as well as a middle-management employee. The high turnover workforce is a big concern in many countries in organizations. Succession planning is unexpectedly turning into a key strategic device for human resources management to develop a plan for the inevitable succession of key employees and managers. Succession planning is intended to help organizations manage and retain their talent pipeline and focus on competence development (Arokiasamy 2021). Most organizations do not focus on identifying a successor in advance. Some organizations devote

International Journal of Global Optimization and Its Application

International Journal of Global Optimization and Its Application Vol 1, No 1, March 2022, pp.39-48.

their effort to developing a strong pool of candidates. When the need arises, the strongest candidate becomes a successor. The present study focuses on providing a comprehensive review of best succession planning practices implemented by all organizations. The major purpose of this article is to illustrate best practices of succession planning in organizations.

- 2. Literature Review

Most of the literature has been focused on the private sector compared to the public sector and non-profit organizations. According to the study of Bano et al. (2022), initially, a literature review on succession planning was done by Kesner & Sebora (1994), which was published later by Mazzucato & Perez (2015) and Bano et al. (2022). Kesner & Sebora's (1994) study showed most of the focus was on the external and internal successors. This study concluded that this period was only the beginning of a comprehensive study of succession planning. Kesner & Sebora's (1994) study also found that only three studies were done for non-profit organizations' transition process. The study of Egan et al. (1995) also suggested that more studies need to be done for non-profit organizations. The study results of Mateso (2010) identified that health institutes also do not take seriously about succession planning. In addition to this, Ofobruku & Nwakoby's (2015) study in the construction sector found that formal succession planning does not exist in some organizations that can cope with the increasing ageing population and retiring founders.

Similarly, few studies have been conducted on higher education succession planning processes that need immediate attention (Bano et al., 2022). Although the corporate industry is doing relatively well in succession planning processes (Mateso 2010), succession planning challenges are still notable in all kinds of organizations. Some studies mentioned that few organizations do not have written succession planning even when their CEOs are nearing departure (Durst & Wilhelm 2012). Although the corporate industry is doing relatively better in succession planning processes (Mateso 2010), succession planning challenges are still notable in all kinds of organizations. Peters-Hawkins et al. (2018) mentioned that educational literature suggests that succession planning agendas may be in direct conflict with professional development planning for organizational leaders in some districts. In the health sector, many institutes prefer to hire experienced nurses than new graduates to fill vacant positions (Jones et al., 2017). Research on succession planning shows that beginning to prepare for leadership transition can minimize potential negative impacts (Perrenoud & Sullivan 2017).