data/clean/international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314__chunk0048.md, before:

# themes: quality of

leadership,

(2003) also reported associations between leadership and intent to leave, but acknowl- edged that this was an indirect link. Their US study collected data (n ¼ 90, RR ¼ 60%) via nine subscales of the Multifactor Leadership Scale (Bass and Avolio, 1995) with varying numbers of items in each subscale: transformational leadership (5), transactional leadership (3), non-transactional (1) and leadership outcomes (3). Intent to leave was measured using a single item (deﬁnitely will not leave ¼ 1, deﬁnitely will leave ¼ 5). The results of stepwise multiple regression suggested that leadership was not directly related to intent to leave but indirectly related through various other predictors. Transformational leadership style was found to predict psychological empowerment of nurses (po0:001) which in turn predicted an increase in job satisfaction (po0:001) which was then a major predictor of a decrease in intent to leave (po0:001). These ﬁndings illustrate the complexity involved in various perceptual and attitudinal factors contributing to an individual’s intention to leave.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314__chunk0048.md, after:

---
source_path: international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9d08d1d6217271f51019025e3cc091d863ba86ef
title: international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314
---
# 4.1. Leadership

One of the problematic issues regarding leadership is the lack of consensus regarding deﬁnition. Despite this, some recognition that it refers to either the direct superior or ward manager exists and that certain characteristics pertaining to leadership are particularly pertinent in inﬂuencing intent to leave. Five of the nine papers used scale measurement of leadership styles and characteristics used in ward environments (Fang, 2001; Fletcher, 2001; Tzeng, 2002; Yin and Yang, 2002; Larrabee et al., 2003). Whilst leadership was deﬁned differently in each study, similar results were obtained with one exception.

Fang (2001) used a speciﬁcally constructed ‘super- vision satisfaction’ scale consisting of ﬁve items measur- ing competency, fairness, recognition, communication and collaboration (strongly disagree ¼ 1, strongly agree ¼ 5). Regression results indicated that supervisor satisfaction was one of the most signiﬁcant predictors of turnover intention (coefﬁcient standardised ¼ (cid:3)0.168, po0:05) but not turnover cognition ((cid:3)0.032). The study surveyed 180 nurses in Singapore and obtained a 90% response rate strengthening the validity of the results although it was undertaken in a single hospital, thus limiting generalisability.

Fletcher (2001) used a six-item scale of ‘immediate supervisor’ measuring perceived qualities such as supervisor reliability, competency and helpfulness (very true ¼ 1, not at all true ¼ 4), as well as the supervisory subscale from the Job Diagnostic Survey (JDS, Hackman and Oldham, 1975) (extremely dissatisﬁed ¼ 1, extremely satisﬁed ¼ 7). The deﬁnition given for immediate super- visor was ‘generally the nurse manager’, and the lowest ratings attained were related to this subject. The lowest individual item means for the subscale of JDS were for supervisor support (mean ¼ 4.34) and quality of super- vision (mean ¼ 4.46). For the Immediate Supervisor scale the highest means (and therefore lowest ratings) were for supervisor helpfulness (2.81) and reliability (2.68). The low ratings were clariﬁed with written comments from participants that were categorised into four general lack of physical presence, failure to address problems and stafﬁng issues. Whilst the results pertaining to intent to leave indicated that the participants surveyed were likely to remain in nursing, this was measured with a single question scored on a 5-point Likert scale without further statistical tests applied. Despite the large sample size (n ¼ 1780 for JDS, n ¼ 509 for qualitative component) and the number of hospitals surveyed (n ¼ 10), the
