# Employee wellbeing (EWB)

- 10. Employee wellbeing (EWB) 11. Employee wellbeing (EWB) 12. Employee wellbeing (EWB) 13. Employee wellbeing (EWB) 14. Employee wellbeing (EWB) 15. Employee wellbeing (EWB)

- 16. Employee wellbeing (EWB)

relationships with various forms of employee well-being. There were significant relationships between heavy and soft work investors and a number of employee well-being variables. The long-standing topic of employee well-being has its roots in McGregor's Theory Y, according to the writers, who have offered a comprehensive viewpoint on the matter. Job satisfaction is positively connected with personal happiness, including positive and negative affect, subjective well-being, psychological well-being, and eudaimonia. A few benefits enhanced satisfaction performance, increased job satisfaction, and improved health. Given that it is regularly determined to be strategically significant individuals, to both organisations and employee well-being has emerged as one of the central topics of research in the study of businesses. A 62-item questionnaire on employee well-being was developed for empirical validation. The new employee well-being measure is made up of four unique elements, according to exploratory factor analysis (EFA): social, psychological, subjective, and workplace well-being. Positive relationships exist between psychological capital, such as optimism, hope, self-efficacy, and resilience, and worker wellbeing and job satisfaction. Social support at work has a positive impact on staff well- being, job satisfaction, and organisational commitment.