data/clean/international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314__chunk0214.md, before:

## effectiveness. Nursing Management 24 (5), 38–39.

McNeese-Smith, D., 1995. Job satisfaction, productivity and commitment. Journal of Nursing Administration 25, 17–26. McNeese-Smith, D., 1999. A content analysis of staff nurse descriptions of job satisfaction and dissatisfaction. Journal of Advanced Nursing 29 (6), 1332–1341.

McVicar, A., 2003. Workplace stress in nursing: a literature review. Journal of Advanced Nursing 44 (6), 633–642. Meerabeau, E., Corby, S., Druker, J., White, G., 2004. Implementing local pay systems in nursing and midwifery. Journal of Advanced Nursing 47 (4), 368–376.

Mobley, W., Horner, S., Hollingsworth, A., 1978. An evalua- tion of precursors of hospital employee turnover. Journal of Applied Psychology 63, 408–414.

Spector, P., 1997. Job Satisfaction: Application, Assessment, Causes and Consequences. Sage Publications, London. Stamps, P., Piedmonte, E., 1986. Nurses and Work Satisfac- tion: An Index for Work Satisfaction. Health Administra- tion Press, Michigan.

Strachota, E., Normandin, P., O’Brien, N., Clary, M., Krukow, B., 2003. Reasons leave or change registered nurses employment status. Journal of Nursing Administration 33 (2), 111–117.

Steele, R., Ovalle, N., 1984. A review and meta-analysis of research on the relationship between behavioural intentions and employee turnover. Journal of Applied Psychology 69, 673–686.

Tovey, E., Adams, A., 1999. The changing nature of nurses’ job satisfaction: an exploration of sources of satisfaction

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314__chunk0214.md, after:

---
source_path: international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 807c68fca674d4d4f9b706d2696a53d9d5724c4b
title: international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314
---
# Harper and Row, New York.

Seccombe, I., Smith, G., 1997. Taking Part: Registered Nurses and the Labour Market in 1997. Institute for Employment Studies, Brighton.

Shader, K., Broome, M., Broome, C., West, M., Nash, M., 2001. Factors inﬂuencing satisfaction and anticipated turn- over for nurses in an academic medical centre. Journal of Nursing Administration 31 (4), 210–216.

Smith, P., Kendall, L., Hulin, C., 1969. Measurement of Satisfaction in Work and Retirement. Rand McNally, Chicago.

McKenna, E., 2000. Business Psychology and Organisational Behaviour: A Student’s Handbook, third ed. Psychology Press, Philadelphia.

Sorrentino, E., 1992. The effect of head nurse behaviours on nurse job satisfaction and performance. Hospital Health Services Administration 37, 103–113.

McNeese-Smith, D., 1993. Leadership behaviour and employee
