---
source_path: international_journal_of_innovation_and_applied_studies.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 01bf2cba6881191e8efd029a042404a59d3f3672
title: international_journal_of_innovation_and_applied_studies
---
## Talent Management: Strategic Priority of Organizations

perspectives on talent management which companies consider while selecting talent management approach. In process perspective, the company believes the success of companies operations depend upon employees. Further in cultural perspective, talent management act as a part of organization culture and allows employees to grow successfully and independently. In competitive perspective, it is focused on determining employee’s own strengths and weakness and to develop strategies to compete rivals successfully. In developmental perspective, it is focused on the growth of individuals. It puts right people with right kind of skills to the place where they grow and help the organization to grow. In change management perspective, employees use a way to bring change in organization. Low [21] had discussed that talent management always enables an organization to become successful and to perform better. Study found out that talent management practices integrated with the company. If company strategically implements it, it will improve their employee’s skills and performance. Further, study reveals that 83% people agree that talent management practices have a relation with the management working, succession planning and compensations. 76% people claims that these practices enhance people performance in organization [1]. The companies who recognize the importance of talent management practice are able to achieve competitive position than the organizations that do not. More time is required to execute talent management process as it involves planning for talent evaluation and development , however, this approach is usually [22]. Organizations ability to retain, to engage and to develop talent determines its position in the industry. Talent management has become a success or failure factor for an organization. The successful talent management helps an organization to achieve its goals and objectives [23].

The good talent management program consists of recruitment, retention, development and promotion of talented employee and the companies with sound leaders were able to perform 13 times better than their competitor [24]. Hence, Kumar [25] recommended that the strategic use of talent management will result in better performance of the companies. A research highlighted that talent management considered strategically important in today’s competitive world as companies are competing on the basis of human capital and by searching, attracting, retaining, and developing talent companies will have competitive advantage [26]. Sheehan [22] noted that attraction and development of key employees of organization resulted in optimal performance of organizations and it would sustain competitive advantage. Talent management has greatly influence the organizational performance. It enhances the productivity, profitability and output of the firm. The study also indicated that retention of the key employees plays an important role in giving companies competitive advantage [8].

3.1
