---
source_path: international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: bd2edd7da17816c5337987d289eae193b8b5710f
title: international_journal_of_nursing_studies_44_2007_297_314
---
# B. Coomber, K. Louise Barriball / International Journal of Nursing Studies 44 (2007) 297–314

relating to pay also included the element of job security. It is possible that this multiple question could have affected the assessment of salary satisfaction if partici- pants were satisﬁed with the security of their position and scored accordingly.

The inability to assess pay individually was also evident in Fletcher’s (2001) study. A job satisfaction subscale of the JDS (Hackman and Oldham, 1975) was used to measure pay satisfaction of US nurses (n ¼ 1780, RR ¼ 34.5%) via two items (Spearman–- Brown reliability for items on scale ¼ 0.86). The pay items were measured with a 7-point Likert scale (extremely dissatisﬁed ¼ 1, extremely satisﬁed ¼ 7) but the only result presented was that of an overall score for the subscale which consisted of 14 items. This asserted that participants were slightly satisﬁed with their jobs (mean ¼ 5.04, SD ¼ 0.99), but rendered speciﬁc results for the pay items inaccessible. Written comments from participants provided some clarity, with an expression of similar feelings to those from Cowin’s Australian (2002) study. They indicated feelings of inadequate reward for their ‘education, experience and expertise’, and unfair- ness of pay compared with other professions. Fletcher (2001) argued that the sample was likely to remain in nursing, although this conclusion was drawn on the basis of a single question providing little insight into the factors inﬂuencing participants’ responses. Generalisa- bility is compromised due to the low response rate (34.5%), and a reported demographic of nurses being represented by a ‘bargaining unit’ (type of union that negotiates salary each year) which is unrepresentative of the nursing profession in other countries.

An interesting feature of the issue of pay and resulting inﬂuence for intent to leave for nurses was reported in Rambur et al’s (2003) large US study. A gender difference affecting pay satisfaction was found during secondary analysis of self-reported data. Pay was collapsed into the category of ‘job dissatisfaction’ along with aspects such as short stafﬁng and poor manage- those intending to leave (males ¼ 23%, ment. Of females ¼ 20%), 75% of male participants were intend- ing to leave for reasons of job dissatisfaction in contrast to 51% of female participants (w2 ¼ 10:31, po0:01). In addition, male participants (53%) were more likely to be leaving due to dissatisfaction with salary than female participants (26%) (w2 ¼ 16:31, po0:01). As no statis- tically signiﬁcant results for gender differences were obtained for the majority of other categories inﬂuencing intent to leave, gender expectations and socialisation may play a particular role in pay.
