# THE ROAD AHEAD

With this in mind, in 2001 AMR issued a call for papers on the topic of the future of work motivation. A special seminar was held at the 2001 annual meeting of the Academy of Manage- ment to stimulate interest and discussion in the topic. In response to the call, researchers sub- mitted fifty-six papers, which were subse- quently reviewed. In view of space limitations of the journal, many worthy papers could not be accommodated. However, following multiple re- view cycles, six papers emerged that seem to offer new and useful ideas and insights into future directions for the theoretical development of the topic.

What these papers have in common is a genuine effort to build on existing theories of work motivation by adapting and extending them to fit the realities of the changing con- temporary workplace. Today’s workplace is characterized by an increasingly short-term focus, time as a critical performance variable, increasing interdependence among employ- ees (often manifested in some form of team organization), evolving affective responses to the workplace experience, increasing value and motive conflicts on the part of employees, and a clear recognition of the transitory nature of careers.

The six papers appearing in this special issue address a variety of issues critical to advancing our understanding of motivation theory and mo- tivation in the workplace. The first paper, by Edwin A. Locke and Gary P. Latham, focuses on the development of metatheories on work moti- vation. These authors present six recommenda-

Next, Myeong-Gu Seo, Lisa Feldman Barrett, and Jean M. Bartunek draw on both psychologi- cal and neurobiological theories of core affec- tive experiences to identify a set of direct and indirect paths through which work-related affec- tive feelings can influence three dimensions of behavioral outcomes: direction, intensity, and persistence. In addition to direct influence, af- fective experiences can also influence behavior indirectly, through their effects on goal level and goal commitment, as well as on the key judgment components of motivation relating to expectancy, utility, and progress.

Ruth Kanfer and Phillip L. Ackerman then use life-span and adult development theories to fa- cilitate an understanding of the implications of aging on workplace motivation. Although aging is generally viewed as leading to declining cog- nitive and intellectual capabilities, these au- thors argue that this view may be overly sim- plistic. Instead, they argue that aging is a more complex process, in which declining cognitive abilities are accompanied by growth in other intellectual abilities, reorganization of motives and goals, and changing personality traits. Fully understanding how aging influences mo- tivation, therefore, requires a comprehensive understanding of the different and often com- pensatory changes taking place.

Following this, Naomi Ellemers, Dick de Gilder, and S. Alexander Haslam use self- categorization theory and social identity pro- cesses to examine the ways in which individual and group processes interact to determine work motivation. The fact that work in organizations is increasingly organized around teams sug- gests it is important to understand how groups influence work motivation. Their paper explores how participation in groups can have a power-