---
source_path: introduction_to_special_topic_forum.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 95702ec64fcf9afffc0209c1abc08612c26e2c53
title: introduction_to_special_topic_forum
---
# RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN WORK MOTIVATION

Many of the ideas emerging from the 1960s and 1970s have subsequently been extended and further developed to reflect an expanded pool of research findings and more sophisti- cated research methods. Indeed, the 1980s wit- nessed a series of refinements and extensions of existing theories. For example, researchers made great strides in conceptual developments and empirical work focusing on social learning theory, as they did in new work focusing on goal-setting theory, job design, reward systems, punishment, procedural justice, innovation and creativity, and cross-cultural influences on work behavior.

An outside observer might conclude from this situation that either we have lost interest in the subject of work motivation (perhaps be- cause it is no longer a pressing issue in organ- izations) or that we solved the work motivation problem long ago, thereby eliminating the need for additional work. Neither of these con- clusions seems very plausible. On the con- trary, in the new economy, replete with its dot.coms, e-commerce, and increased global- ization (as well as the more traditional manu- facturing and service firms), a motivated work- force is frequently cited as a hallmark of competitive advantage. Indeed, MIT econo- mist Lester Thurow (1992) observed over a de- cade ago that successful companies (and countries) will compete in the future based principally on the quality of both their tech- nology and their human resources. A moti- vated workforce becomes a critical strategic asset in such competition.3 Why, then, has there been so little intellectual activity focus- ing on this important topic? Perhaps we have yet to develop the breakthrough ideas that can push us to the next level of understanding.

However, by the 1990s, intellectual interest in work motivation theory—at least as mea- sured by journal publications—seemed to de- cline precipitously. As evidence of this, con- sider the number of theoretical (as opposed to empirical) articles published in leading be- havioral science journals over the past decade (e.g., see Ambrose & Kulik, 1999, or Mitchell & Daniels, 2002). You will find few articles that focus on genuine theoretical developments in this area. Instead, you will see minor exten- sions, empirical tests, or applications of exist- ing theories. While clearly helpful, this hardly leads to breakthrough developments in our understanding of the principles underlying work motivation. At the same time, a review of the most recent editions of textbooks in the field of management and organizational be- havior reveals that most of the theories dis- cussed date from the 1960s and 1970s, with only fleeting references to more recent work. (It is also curious that some early motivation theories that have subsequently been widely discredited continue to permeate such texts.) In short, while other fields of management research (e.g., leadership, decision making, negotiations, groups and teams, and organiza- tion design) continue to develop conceptually, substantive theoretical developments focus- ing on work motivation have not kept pace.

While theoretical developments on work mo- tivation may have declined in recent years, the world of work has changed dramatically. Indeed, one can argue that the past decade has witnessed greater workplace changes than any other decade in memory. Companies are both downsizing and expanding (often at the same time, in different divisions or levels of the hierarchy). The workforce is character- ized by increased diversity with highly diver- gent needs and demands. Information technol- ogy has frequently changed both the manner and location of work activities. New organiza- tional forms (such as those found in e-com- merce) are now commonplace. Teams are re- defining the notion of hierarchy, as well as traditional power distributions. The use of contingent workers is on the rise. Managing knowledge workers continues to perplex expe- rienced managers across divergent industries. And globalization and the challenges of man- aging across borders are now the norm in- stead of the exception.

3 See a special issue of Harvard Business Review (January 2003) focusing on the importance of employee motivation as a key strategic asset in competition and corporate perfor- mance.

383

384
