## topmost echelons of organizational leadership (Berngat, et al, 2015) A large body of diverse literature and research is devoted to understanding organizational change. The concept of organizational change is very broad; consequently, researchers have looked at it from a variety of perspectives. For example, some researchers have looked at the identification of the need for change, studying the precipitating factors and the interpretive processes involved. Change agents must “rewire” the plane while it is flying if the organization hopes to survive and perhaps prosper in the future. Clearly, this is no easy task when everyone around you is arguing for you to “hurry up” (Judge and Blocker, 2008: 915.) Organizational change is not only a rational activity but also an emotional one that challenges deep-seated human fears and inspires human hope. Indeed, Kotter and Cohen (2002), argued that change is predominantly about matters of the heart, not the head. Organizations can operate in mechanical ways, but they also comprise living human beings who want meaningful work that allows them to have a life outside of work. As such, by assuming that all organizational change is rational and logical in nature where fear, political positioning, and turf wars rage, one wonders why any change initiative might work. To many organizations, change comes like a hurricane season. Everyone knows it’s coming. It is the same every year. The only thing we don’t know is “Who will it hit this time?”. To other organizations, change comes like the earthquake. We may never see it coming but have this nagging feeling that it is (Thames and Webster 2009:12). Whatever it is, organizations must prepare in advance, not just react when the environmental jolt is experienced (Rieley and Clarkson, 2001)). That advance preparation is what is called organizational capacity for change. Organizations with relatively high change capacity can successfully shoot the rapids, weather the hurricane, or continue operating during and after a devastating earthquake. Organizations with relatively low change capacity are at the mercy of their environment and much more subject to luck and chance (Judge and Douglas, 2009) . It has been found from literature that the higher the aggregate organizational capacity for change is, the higher the subsequent environmental and financial performance (Judge and Elenkov, 2005)). In other words, organizational capacity for change is positively correlated with, and is likely to lead to, superior financial and environmental performance. Common sense and systematic empirical research has shown that the more your environment is changing, or is about to change, the more important your organizational capacity for change is (Judge, Naoumova, Douglas, & Koutzevol , 2009). 2.2 Change Management. The ability to manage change effectively has become crucial. However, literature has revealed that 2 out of 3 change initiatives fail (Caldwell, Chatman & O’Reilly, 2008). It may be suggested that this poor success rate indicates a fundamental lack of a valid framework of how to implement and manage organizational change as what is currently available to academics and practitioners is a wide range of contradictory and confusing theories and approaches (Burnes, 2004). Change management is therefore an important process for organizations in their attempt to reach out to new horizons and new dispensations where they can find more harmony within the environments in which they operate (Bengat, Odenyo & Rotich, 2015). According to Moran and Brightman (2001), change management is the process of continually renewing an organization‘s direction, structure, and capabilities to serve the ever-changing needs of its external and internal customers. Consequently, organizational change cannot be separated from organizational strategy, or vice versa (Burnes, 2004; Rieley & Clarkson, 2001). The early approaches and theories to organizational change management suggested that organizations could not be effective or improve performance if they were constantly changing. It was argued that people needed routines to be effective and able to improve performance (Luecke, 2003). However, it is now argued that it is of vital importance to organizations that people are able to undergo continuous change (Burnes, 2004; Rieley and Clarkson, 2001). Change Management means to plan, initiate, realize, control, and stabilize the change process on both the corporate and the personal level by handling obstacles carefully (Singh, Saeed, & Bertsch, 2012). Change management has also been defined as the effective management of a business change such that executive leaders, managers and frontline employers work in concert to successfully implement the needed process, technology or organizational changes (Korir, Mukotive, Loice & Kimeli, 2012). Change management is a planned loom for the 111 European Journal of Business and Management www.iiste.org ISSN 2222-1905 (Paper) ISSN 2222-2839 (Online) Vol.10, No.26, 2018 transition of individuals, groups and organizations from existing state to a required future state. Thus, managing a change process is as important as change itself (Olajide, 2014:1). The impact and consequences of any change initiative on an organization, its employees and working processes depends on the nature and type of changes, but most importantly according to how the changes are managed (Erdogan, 2008; in Abdulahi, 2014). Change management strategies is essential as organization faces a change in mission, restructuring operations, layoffs, new technologies, mergers, rightsizing and new management to overcome individual resistances, create readiness, commitment and change the mindset and attitudes of change recipients (Abdullahi, 2014). To lead change successfully, Kotter and Schlesinger (2008) recommended three steps which a manager must follow in implementing change: Analyse Situational Factors: The manager must try to provide answers to questions such as, how much and what kind of resistance do we anticipate? What is the manager’s position relative to resisters—in terms of his power and the level of trust between him and the resisters; whether he has less organizational power than those who may resist the change. Who has the most accurate information about what changes are needed? Whether the manager anticipates needing information and commitment from others to help design and implement the change. Determine the Optimal Speed of Change: The manager must use his analysis of situational factors to decide how quickly or slowly the change should be implemented. Consider Methods for Managing Resistance: Research suggests that for those implementing a change programme, there are three inter - related skills (Burtonshaw, 2008). It include transforming skills, mental skills, and skills of empathy and understanding of feelings. Transforming skills talks about where the manager needs to be able to create a supportive risk - taking environment, have self - awareness and self - confidence. He will need to possess the ability to share the benefits that the change will bring and the journey needed to undertake this through visualization techniques. Mental skills requires managers to think holistically and help others to see the big picture. This enables the manager to work with rules of thumb based on action learning. Skills of empathy and understanding of feelings is witnessed through the use of symbols, analogies and metaphors to relate to the change process and will need the ability to tolerate stress and resist confronting every issue. These skills demand use of both left and right side brain techniques. Burtonshaw, & Salameh (2007), identified five strategies for implementing change. They are directive strategy, expert strategy, and negotiating strategy, educative strategy, participative strategy. In directive strategy, the management can use its authority to impose the changes required and be able to carry them out speedily. However, the dis-advantage of this approach is that it is likely to increase resistance by those involved or even undermine the overall success of the change implementation. Expert strategy is usually applied when a technical problem requires solving, such as the introduction of a new IT system, and as such is better suited to smaller technical or operational change than a wider cultural - change requirement. It is also appropriate that introducing technical changes does not easily lend itself to wider consultation as knowledge of the technical nuances may reside only with a limited number of individuals. Negotiating strategy according to Burtonshaw and Salameh, involves a willingness to negotiate with individuals and teams affected by the change and to accept that adjustments and concessions may have to be made. Opting for this approach does not remove the management’s responsibility for the direction and initiation of change but acknowledges that those affected have the right to have some input in the changes proposed, or that they have some power to resist it if they are not supportive. The advantage of selecting this approach is that resistance to the proposed change is likely to be reduced. However, such negotiation will add to the overall programme and the pre - implementation time may take longer. Changing work practices in return for increased pay and/or other benefits is a classic example of the negotiating strategy. Educative strategy involves changing people’s values and beliefs so that they support the change and are committed to a shared set of organizational values. Winning hearts and minds according to Burtonshaw and Salameh, is a complex process that involves a mixture of activities such as communication, persuasion, education, training and selection. The advantage of such an approach, if successful,