# Organizational Change, Change Management, and Resistance to Change – An Exploratory Study David Olusegun ANINKAN Department of Business Administration & Management, Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, PMB 2210, Ojere Abeokuta, Nigeria Abstract For any organisation to remain afloat, it must always position itself to competitively struggle for the limited resources from the ever changing and dynamic environment; by not only responding to change but looking out for change. Organisational Change, change management and resistance to change; are tripartite concepts in which no one can be conveniently treated singularly without mentioning the other ones. The methodology adopted in the study is exploratory approach. It examined the literature to present how change management determines the level of change resistance and the eventual organisational change. The paper commenced with the conceptual literature, to the theoretical literature, empirical literature, findings from the literature, the conceptual framework, and the conclusion. Recommendations were made for organisations to avail themselves of the services of experts in human capital management, to handle change implementation programmes for them. Keywords: Organisational change, change management, resistance to change. 1 Introduction. There is an almost universal agreement on the importance of change in organisations; and many companies implement new managerial concepts in order to maintain profitability and remain competitive. Some changes have a significant impact on the organisation, but many others have a low impact and are often referred to as management fashions (Luketa, 2012). For organization to stay relevant and competitive, change is necessary (Jorgensen, Owen & Neus, 2009)). Organizational change is the movement of an organization away from its present state and toward some desired future state to increase its effectiveness . Organizations should adapt and respond to appropriate changes in a timely manner to foster organizational performance. The mere mention of change can generate feelings of nervousness and tension, and as the change begins to take shape, organizational members may feel a sense of uncertainty and confusion. This may be due to the fear of the unknown. Given such realities, it appears unlikely key organizational leaders could underrate the implications that come with change initiatives (Bernerth, 2004). Change is a regular feature of organizational life and indeed, an inseparable aspect of nature; while resistance is an inseparable aspect of change. This is primarily because people are uncomfortable with the new, the strange and the unknown and they would rather prefer stability even though progress is never attained by being static (Muo, 2014: 96). It is this importance attached to the phenomenon of change and change management that necessitates this paper. - 2. Conceptual Literature Review 2.1 Organizational Change An organization has been described to consist of a group of individuals working together in a system to accomplish the goals of both the individuals and the organization (Muo & Muo, 2014). People perform their roles within complex systems called organizations (Armstrong, 2009). Organization can be described as a group of people working together cooperatively to accomplish an enduring goal of the organization, and through that, achieve their individual goals. To Robbins (2003), an organization is a continuously coordinated social unit, composed of two or more people that functions on a relatively continuous basis to achieve common goals. Organizations can also be seen as a system of roles and stream of activities designed to accomplish shared purpose. This definition emphasises the importance of organisational structure and processes in pursuit of common goals (Robey and Sales,1994, in Oghojafor, Muo & Aduloju, 2012: 83). Change can simply be defined as the transition to a new or different situation or state of affairs. It implies the shedding off of the status quo for something new or unusual. According to Burnes (2004) change is an ever-present feature of organizational life, both at an operational and strategic level. There should be no doubt regarding the importance to any organization of its ability to identify where it needs to be in the future, and how to manage the changes required to getting there (Todnem, 2005). Due to complexity of events and rapidity of technologies in the environment, organizations are subject to many pressures for change. Continuous developments and range of triggers force organizations towards change initiatives. Indeed, these pressures on organizations to change emanate from external and internal environment of the organizations. (Yilmaz & Kilicoglu, 2013). The external sources could be as a result of improved technology, pressure from interest groups from outside the organization such as government or competitors in the industry. 109 European Journal of Business and Management www.iiste.org ISSN 2222-1905 (Paper) ISSN 2222-2839 (Online) Vol.10, No.26, 2018 The internal source of change could be from individual such as shareholders, management, employees. Globalization, new technologies, culture shifts are some of the factors contributing to the fast-moving environment where organizations develop their activities. As a consequence, organizations have to change more frequently in response to the environment. Irrespective of the source, whenever the need for change is obvious, the management is always faced with the question of how to respond to this change. The dilemma is usually whether to change the objectives and strategies of the organization, or the technology, or human resource, or the organization structure, or the business environment (Olajide, 2014). It is universally known that the content of organisational change is rather broad. Analysis of literature shows that typology of organisational changes involves the following aspects: changes in management structure, organisational, employee, and management culture changes, strategic changes, changes in human resource management process, which are related to increase in labour productivity and efficiency, development of skills and competences, operational environment reformation changes related to introduction of new technologies to business processes, and systemic changes (Bersenaite, Saparnis, & Saparniene, 2012). Naoler and Tushman (2000) identified some categories of Change: Radical versus Incremental Change, Reactive versus Proactive change. Radical change according to them, is a change that have an impact on the whole system of the organization and fundamentally redefine what the organization is or change its basic framework, including strategy, structure, people, processes and (in some cases) core values. Radical change or approach is used to address more fundamental problems especially in some situations, such as after a period of flux or unexpected rapid change in the environment. Incremental change on the other hand, is referred to as changes that happens all the time in organizations, and they need not to be small. Such things as changes in organization structure, the introduction of new technology and significant modifications of personnel practices are all large and significant changes, but usually occur within the existing definition and frame of reference of the organization. Johnson (2008) claims that the incremental approach to change is more common and this type of change is commonly used to maximize short term performance. The logic behind the incremental view is that the environment is constantly changing and incremental change being a continuous process is one of the ways to secure the future of the company and improve organizational performance. Reactive change is characterized as that change implemented in response to some external event and or serious internal operational and managerial problems. Bennis and Thomas (2002) sees reactive change as a change in the organizational policies which is implemented in reaction to the occurrence of an event. This change is initiated due to pressures of external forces. Changes are made in response to a situation and primarily unplanned in nature. Management makes changes to deal with the problem in a quick and routine manner since they do not have time to analyse the situation and prepare a well-conceived plan. The environmental events, various threats and opportunities are reacted to immediately. Proactive change on the other hand, is that change where the organisation is not currently experiencing any serious problems but managers anticipate the need for change to put the company in a better position, or current potential problems. Though this anticipatory approach to change is generally preferable, in practice most companies tend to take a reactive approach, usually as a consequence of the commonly held view that there is no need for change if current performance is satisfactory (Olajide, 2014)). Other categorisations of change in the literature include, continuous and discontinuous change, incremental change, planned and emergent change, developmental change, Convergent change, transitional change. Continuous change is the ability to change continuously in a fundamental manner to keep up with the fast- moving pace for change (Burnes, 2004). The difference between Burnes‘ (2004) understanding of continuous and incremental change is that while the former (continuous change) describes departmental, operational, ongoing changes, the latter (incremental change) is concerned with organization-wide strategies and the ability to constantly adapt these to the demands of both the external and internal environment. In an attempt to simplify the categories, Luecke (2003) suggests combining continuous and incremental change and also concluded that a state of continuous change can become a routine in its own right. Advocates of discontinuous change on the other hand argue that this approach is cost-effective as it does not promote a never-ending process of costly change initiatives, and that it creates less turmoil caused