only with a limited number of individuals. Negotiating strategy according to Burtonshaw and Salameh, involves a willingness to negotiate with individuals and teams affected by the change and to accept that adjustments and concessions may have to be made. Opting for this approach does not remove the management’s responsibility for the direction and initiation of change but acknowledges that those affected have the right to have some input in the changes proposed, or that they have some power to resist it if they are not supportive. The advantage of selecting this approach is that resistance to the proposed change is likely to be reduced. However, such negotiation will add to the overall programme and the pre - implementation time may take longer. Changing work practices in return for increased pay and/or other benefits is a classic example of the negotiating strategy. Educative strategy involves changing people’s values and beliefs so that they support the change and are committed to a shared set of organizational values. Winning hearts and minds according to Burtonshaw and Salameh, is a complex process that involves a mixture of activities such as communication, persuasion, education, training and selection. The advantage of such an approach, if successful, is that people will be positively committed to the change. In general, this approach typically takes much longer and requires more resources than the previous three strategies described above. Participative strategy has a number of advantages such as, changes are more likely to be widely acceptable over the other strategies; it promotes an active involvement of people and is likely to increase their commitment to, and enthusiasm for, the change process. Additionally, there will be opportunities for both managers and employees to learn from the experiences and skills of this wide participation. While this has a number of advantages due to the participation of staff, the identified changes are likely to take longer and require additional resources to support the change. 2.3 Resistance To Change (RTC) No matter how successfully or administratively perfect a proposed change may be, individuals in an organization implement or break the change due to representing a form of influence (Yılmaz & Kılıçoglu, 2013). Even though 112 European Journal of Business and Management www.iiste.org ISSN 2222-1905 (Paper) ISSN 2222-2839 (Online) Vol.10, No.26, 2018 organizational change generally can be initiated by managers or imposed by specific changes in policy and procedures or arose through external pressures; organizational change is management’s attempt to have zrganization members to think, behave and perform differently (Kreitner & Kinicki, 2010). Resistance to both small and large change is one of the important factors that can influence the success of implementing any organizational change, including new technology innovations, new policies, and new organizational structure (Chuang, 2004 ). Research findings have revealed that change and innovation fail not because the new strategies or goals are inappropriate but rather because organizations are unable to successfully implement them. Capturing the gain from a new strategy or change in process is not simply a function of reallocating resources, providing new technology, or reorganizing units; effective organizational change generally requires that employees and work groups shift the way they do things. In fact, if employees and work groups do not change their behaviours, implementing a new strategy is often impossible. However, people differ with regard to their perception towards change; some of them may consider change with a lower tolerance. That is, some organizational members embrace change initiatives readily and move it while others fight the change to the death with denying its necessity (Burke, 2008). Early conceptualization of resistance to organizational change (RTC) can be traced back to Kurt Lewin’s (1947) ground-breaking studies of force-field analysis in the organizational development literature. (Bhattacherjee and Hikmet, 2007). Lewin discovered that social system has a tendency to maintain status quo by resisting change and returning back to the initial state. However, there are a number of misconceptions about what resistance to change is, who resists it and why, what it means to the organisation and why and how it should be managed. Managers need a richer understanding of the phenomenon so that its value can be appreciated and its negative effects minimised ( Smollan, 2011:12). It is generally perceived that resistance to change (RTC) is negative, and that it is the greatest obstacle to the attainment of change objectives (Muo, 2014:96). Some writers have labelled resistance to change a brick wall and a dangerous roadblock to transformation; while others see resistance to change as one of the nastiest, most debilitating workplace cancers (Burke, 2008). To Foote (2001), there is not a more potent, paradoxical or equal- opportunity killer of progress and good intentions. Many managers underestimate not only the variety of ways people react to organisational change, but also the ways they can positively influence specific individuals and groups during a change (Kotter, & Schlesinger, 2008). - 3. Empirical Literature Review Gaylor (2001), examined the effect of higher education and trust on the police officer’s level of resistance to change and the effects of participation and communication on trust. The result failed to support previous research, which listed participation as the most important factor, but did support the concept that participation and communication improved trust. Ismail, Abdullah & Salamuddin, (2006), in their study examined the development and introduction of a new management system, i.e. ISO 9000 based quality management system, in a faculty in a Malaysian university. They concluded that interest can be cultivated, knowledge disseminated and involvement maximized through an implementation strategy that co-opts the staff from the inception of the change initiative. Singh, Saeed, & Bertsch, ( 2012), carried out a study to test a theoretical model of factors influencing employee resistance towards change and found out that the implementation strategy adopted played a major role. Boohene, R. & Williams (2012), investigated the factors that influence resistance to organisational change; and the results indicated that less employee participation in decision making and lack of trust in management contributed highly to resistance. Austn & Isaac (2012), in their investigation of the management of change in industrial organizations in Port Harcourt, Nigeria; revealed that change management is a great phenomenon that enhances the performance of the industrial organizations, and that if more attentions are given, industrial organizations definitely will have a good standard. Babalola (2013), in a study on the influence of commitment and job insecurity as predictors of openness to organizational change; found out that commitment and job insecurity contributed significantly to openness to organizational change. Adeniji, Osibanjo & Abiodun (2013), studied the relationship between human resource management interventionist strategies and organizational change; and flexibility that can make employees more adaptive and receptive to changes. It was found out that relationship existed among human resource management interventionist strategies, and was consistent with organizational change in the studied industry. A model fit was developed to examine the role Human Resource Management Interventionist strategies play in organizational change; by relating study variables such as staffing, fear alleviation, effective communication, developing plan and integrating the existing human resource systems to commitment of employees when change is experienced in organizations. Abdulraheem, Mordi, Ojo & Ajonbadi (2013), carried out a study on the outcomes of planned organisational change in the Nigerian public sector education institutions. The paper discovered that reforms are easy to formulate 113 European Journal of Business and Management www.iiste.org ISSN 2222-1905 (Paper) ISSN 2222-2839 (Online) Vol.10, No.26, 2018 but difficult to implement and accompanied by resistance from people. Ringin & Bello (2013), examined the effects of the change management factors on the Nigerian banks organizational performance, and to explore the implementation level of change management related factors among banks in Nigeria. The results showed that change management factors such as revised reward system, people’s involvement, empowerment, training and education were significantly related to overall organisational performance in terms of turnover, profit margin, customer service delivery and operational cost reduction performance. Olajide (2014) looked into the effects of change management on organizational performance of the Nigerian telecoms industries. The result revealed that changes in technology has a significant effect on performance and that changes in customer taste has a significant effect on customer’s patronage. It was also confirmed that changes in management via leadership has a significant effect on employee’s performance. Onyango (2014), investigated the causal effects of organization culture on change management using descriptive survey research design. The study found out that organization beliefs/ values as part of organization culture, affects change management. Organization norms was found to have no significant effects on Change Management, while support by top Management was found to have significant effect on Change Management in the organization. These findings are similar to the findings of Ojo (2009), who found out that corporate culture affects performance. Muo (2014), in a survey of a diverse sample of managers in 5 South-Western States of Nigeria confirmed the perception that resistance is the greatest obstacle to change management, and that the impact of change resistance is mostly negative. Okiiya, Kisiangani & Oparanya (2015), in a study to establish change management