to change is generally preferable, in practice most companies tend to take a reactive approach, usually as a consequence of the commonly held view that there is no need for change if current performance is satisfactory (Olajide, 2014)). Other categorisations of change in the literature include, continuous and discontinuous change, incremental change, planned and emergent change, developmental change, Convergent change, transitional change. Continuous change is the ability to change continuously in a fundamental manner to keep up with the fast- moving pace for change (Burnes, 2004). The difference between Burnes‘ (2004) understanding of continuous and incremental change is that while the former (continuous change) describes departmental, operational, ongoing changes, the latter (incremental change) is concerned with organization-wide strategies and the ability to constantly adapt these to the demands of both the external and internal environment. In an attempt to simplify the categories, Luecke (2003) suggests combining continuous and incremental change and also concluded that a state of continuous change can become a routine in its own right. Advocates of discontinuous change on the other hand argue that this approach is cost-effective as it does not promote a never-ending process of costly change initiatives, and that it creates less turmoil caused by continuous change. According to Lewin (1946) in Bamford and Forrester (2003), the planned approach to organizational change attempts to explain the process that brings about change. Furthermore, the planned approach emphasizes the importance of understanding the different states which an organization will have to go through in order to move from an unsatisfactory state to an identified desired state. The emergent approach to change is more concerned with change readiness and facilitating for change than to provide specific pre-planned steps for each change project and initiative. Several advocates of the emergent approach have suggested sequences of actions that organizations should comply with. However, many of these suggestions tend to be rather abstract in nature and difficult to apply (Burnes, 2004). Developmental change is an improvement in the old way of doing things, with the aim of doing more or doing better things. Convergent change on the other hand, is viewed as developmental change because it consists of series of incremental changes. According to Judge and Blocker (2008), convergent change focuses on incremental 110 European Journal of Business and Management www.iiste.org ISSN 2222-1905 (Paper) ISSN 2222-2839 (Online) Vol.10, No.26, 2018 adjustments to environmental innovations and continuous improvement that optimizes an organizational fit in its environment. In essence, organizations that embraces convergent change are better equipped to maintain excellency in performance and overcome external challenges since it is planned and proactive in approach. Transitional change occurs when a decision has been made to change what currently exists and to implement something new. It is an implementation of a known state such as rearranging or dismantling old operating methods. This type of change generally occurs over a set of period of time and requires patience on the part of all organizational members. Examples are cases of implementation of new product lines or computerization of the management information system, introduction of new technology among others (Olajide, 2014). Any successful organizational change endeavours should enjoy the inspiration and commitment of the