# Employee Attrition Prediction in the USA: A Machine Learning Approach for HR Analytics and Talent Retention Strategies

application of machine learning in terms of forecasting employee attrition and its ramifications for HR analytics and talent retention strategies.

Marvin and Jackson (2021), contend that in the versatile business spectrum in the USA, human capital is one of the most instrumental assets for companies. Retaining top performing and diminishing employee attrition has become an utmost priority in the USA since the costs related to employee attrition can be significant. These organizational costs comprise the disruptions in productivity, loss of institutional knowledge, and the high cost involved in training and recruiting new employees. As such, efficient talent retention tactics are instrumental for retaining a skilled and productive workforce, affirming business continuity, and promoting a competitive advantage.

IJRASET (2021), indicates that conventional methods for employee turnover rates frequently depend on reactive tools, such as the employee departure survey questionnaire, which gives Human Resource managers valuable information after the staff has already decided to quit their employment. Nevertheless, by deploying advanced machine learning and data analytics methods, organizations can take a comprehensive method to detect and reduce the risk of employee attrition. Machine learning, a sub- category of artificial intelligence, allows the crating of predictive models that can evaluate large volumes of datasets and expose relationships and patterns that may not be instantly visible. By deploying machine learning models to historical employee data, companies can build algorithms capable of forecasting the probability of employee churning grounded on various factors, such as career development opportunities, compensation, job satisfaction, and work-life balance.

1.1 Problem Statement In retrospect, employee attrition presents a myriad of challenges for companies across industries in the USA, particularly, high attrition rates result in the loss of valuable talent, and human capital, disrupt team dynamics, as well as increase recruitment and training costs. The departure of well-trained and high-performing employees from an organization frequently results in a major organizational loss. In that light, this research paper aims to explore the root causes that lead to employee attrition, such as salary changes, promotional opportunities, the nature of the work environment, business travel opportunities, the nature of relations between superiors and subordinates, recognition and appreciation, and the time gap since the last promotion. Machine learning techniques will be the basis on which organizations in the USA can predict employee attrition. Such predictions can be made for the retention of valuable employees through various AI and machine learning methodologies.

- 2. Related Works A myriad of groundbreaking studies have been conducted to explore the efficacy of machine learning algorithms in predicting employee attrition. For instance, Qutub et al. (202), investigated employee attrition by applying distinct machine learning techniques, most notably, Logistic Regression (LR), K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Naive Bayes (NB), Support Vector Machines (SVM), Decision Trees (DT), and random forests (RF). The investigators performed two different experiments – one integrating feature selection and the other without. As a result, across both experimental instances, the support vector machine (SVM) algorithm proved to be the most effective and accurate technique for predicting employee attrition. By contrast, Sani (2023), in his in-depth study, discovered they found out that Naive Bayes had a relatively higher recall rate of 0.541. Nonetheless, they also discovered that deploying Naive Bayes on real-world turnover data presents challenges because of the assumption of predictor autonomy, which may not hold. This, combined with its lesser performance, results in relatively lower accurate predictions of employee attrition. In their study, they also established that the Decision tree algorithm performed second best, with logistic regression following closely in performance.

Raza et al. (2022), in their experimentation, ascertained that the XG-Boost (XGB) model outshined Logistic Regression, Random Forest, and Naive Bayes in terms of accuracy. They also outlined that XGB's innate regularization assists in terms of overcoming overfitting issues. The researchers equally pinpointed that the data used forecasting employee churning contains noise, and XGB can efficiently handle this noise, preventing it from being misinterpreted as relevant data.

Ajit (2022), designed an algorithm deploying a gradient-boosting classifier. After evaluating the algorithm's performance through precision, recall, and accuracy measurements, the gradient boosting tree model showcased superior outcomes compared to other techniques, attaining an accuracy of 97%. The experiment findings indicated that workers who are dissatisfied are more likely to quit and leave the company, while those with longer tenure and higher work involvement were less likely to resign.

IJRASET (2021), in their research, evaluated the efficiency of machine learning models in forecasting employee attrition. The goal of the investigators was to compare and contrast the accuracy of employee attrition forecasting attained via distinct machine learning algorithms, including Naive Bayes, Support Vector Machines, and Decision Trees. The result suggested that Random Forest displayed a relatively solid forecasting capability. The assessment indicated that employing more complicated machine learning Page | 48