---
source_path: journal_of_sport_psychology_1980_2_34_45.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6f98931b2f299f96c1ee4663de2e80b9e5eb7298
title: journal_of_sport_psychology_1980_2_34_45
---
# LEADERSHIP SCALE 35

If sports teams are viewed as formal organizations, then, the coach's role may

be equated to that of management (see Sage, 1974). The many and varied managerial functions of the coach include planning, organizing, budgeting, scheduling, recruiting, public relations, leadership, etc. Of these, leadership, defined by Barrow (1977) as "the behavioral process of influencing individuals and groups toward set goals" (p. 232), is the most significant because other functions are performed away from the actual coaching context and can be performed by other individuals in the organization. Because the leadership provided by the coach is mainly instrumental in enhancing the motivational state of the group (House, 1971) and because, in turn, the motivational state of the group is the ultimate basis of performance effectiveness, research in leadership process in sports may significantly contribute to the understanding of sport performance.

To date, most studies of leadership in sports have focused on the personality of the coach (e.g.. Sage, 1975), or the coach's decision style—autocratic versus democratic (e.g., Lenk, 1977). Some studies have examined the application of Fiedler's (1967) Contingency Model of Leadership Effectiveness to the sport situation (e.g.. Bird, 1977). And, finally, a recent and promising approach has as its focus the analysis of the varying behaviors of the coach which are appropriate to the different athletic situations (Chelladurai & Carron, 1978; Chelladurai & Saleh, 1978). In fact, Chelladurai (1978) has proposed a Multidimensional Model of Leadership which specifies that the effectiveness of leader behavior (i.e., the coaching behavior) is contingent on its congruence with the preferences of the members as well as the dictates of the situational characteristics.

Although theoretical attempts to develop leadership models for sports are worthwhile, the clarity and cogency of any theory cannot be established without adequate leadership instruments. In fact, the elaboration of any theory entails an obligation to measure its constructs or to specify behavioral manifestations which can be adequately measured. Otherwise, theoretical formulations only yield a proliferation in terminology, instead of fulfilling a promise of empirical advance. Although the need for systematic research to identify and describe the dimensions of leader behavior in coaching and the need to develop valid scales to assess coaching behavior have been stressed (e.g., Cratty, 1973), there has been no attempt in this direction.

There have been, of course, a number of leadership behavior instruments used in previous research in other organizational settings—the Leader Behavior Description Questionnaire (Halpin, 1957), the Supervisory Behavior Description Questionnaire (Fleishman, 1957a), the Leadership Opinion Questionnaire (Fleish- man, 1957b), and the revised LBDQ-Form XII (Stogdill, 1963). However, it is also necessary to verify whether the dimensions identified in these instruments— initiating structure and consideration—as well as the specific items are relevant to the sports context. The dimensions may not be pertinent because sport-as-an- organization is unique in the following ways: First, in athletics the organizational members spend a disproportionate number of hours in training for a competition of about 1 hour. This is in contrast to the industrial and business situation where
