data/clean/journal_of_european_industrial_training__chunk0055.md, before:

# 4 Evaluating potential. Tornow (1993)

suggests that multi-source feedback can be used in assignment selection. Other areas that fall into this category include promotion and succession planning. Towers Perrin (1998) found that 31 per cent, 27 per cent and 13 per cent of respondents use multi-source feedback for evaluating potential, succession planning and promotion respectively. Of the respondents to the survey, 11 per cent indicated that they based bonus payments on the information they received from the feedback.

5 Enhancing team effectiveness. Lepsinger and Lucia (1997) propose that organisations are using feedback to enhance team effectiveness. Many companies are developing 3608 feedback systems that focus on skills required for effective teamwork. The data that these processes gather can both clarify which behaviours are most essential and also help people understand what they have to do to help improve team effectiveness. The very nature of the 3608 process is very conducive for improving team working skills. The recipients can learn how their team members perceive their behaviour and this in turn should lead to improved communication in the team.

Thus, the most common applications for 3608 feedback focus on career and other forms of employee development. Research highlights that the proposed purpose of the 3608 feedback programme will influence how the raters rate the recipient. For example, London et al. (1990) report that 34 per cent of subordinates who had rated their superiors would have rated them differently if the feedback was being used for manager's performance appraisal as opposed to his/her training and development. Waldman and Bowen (1998) report that respondents would have changed ratings in their research site had the 3608 feedback process been used for evaluative purposes rather than developmental purposes. These findings suggest that, where multi-source feedback is used for evaluative purposes, the ratings are less than accurate and therefore it calls into question the validity of conducting 3608 feedback for this purpose.

) T P (

5 1 0 2

h c r a

M 8 0

1 0 : 5 1 t

A K R O C E G E L L O C Y T I S R E V N U y b

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/journal_of_european_industrial_training__chunk0055.md, after:

---
source_path: journal_of_european_industrial_training.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 309e53df8036ed7c2870fbe0deb07561324251f9
title: journal_of_european_industrial_training
---
## Journal of European Industrial Training 25/1 [2001] 5±32

[16]

and Smither (1995) indicate that the content of multi-source rating scales communicates dimensions of performance that are important to the organisation. These important behaviours are contained in the rating instrument and individuals who are exposed to the multi- source assessment process can develop schemata of desired performance and expected behaviour.

3 Performance evaluation (linking 3608

feedback to pay). The use of multi-source feedback as a method of determining employee remuneration is a contentious area. Many commentators point to the detrimental effect that such a use of 3608 feedback can have on rating accuracy, employee motivation and the relationship between the raters and the feedback recipient. This area is considered in more detail later in this monograph. The Towers Perrin (1998) survey reports that only 9 per cent of respondents base employees' pay on the results of the 3608 feedback.
