---
source_path: journal_of_organizational_effectiveness_people_and_performance.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c7ed16066c7a0087f539e78049f16cbd087ed821
title: journal_of_organizational_effectiveness_people_and_performance
---
# I

d e d a o l n w o D

should be positively related to engagement because individuals high in positive affect or Extraversion should be “predisposed to experiencing activation, alertness, and enthusiasm” (Christian et al., 2011, p. 100). Neuroticism should be negatively related to engagement because anxious or self-conscious employees are more likely to perceive their work environment as threatening, less safe, and taxing of their emotional resources (Wildermuth, 2010). Agreeableness should be positively associated with engagement because employees high in agreeableness should be better able to “mobilize social supports and resources to engage more directly in their job roles and organizational context” (Wildermuth, 2010, p. 204). Openness to Experience should be positively associated with engagement because engaged employees are more likely to be innovative and open to change (Macey and Schneider, 2008).

Research evidence supports the potential influence of personality on engagement. Christian et al.’s (2011) meta-analysis reported moderately high correlations between engagement and trait Conscientiousness (Mρ¼0.42) and between engagement and Extraversion/Positive Affectivity (Mρ¼0.43). Christian et al. did not report correlations between engagement and Openness to Experience, Agreeableness, or Emotional Stability. Inceoglu and Warr (2011), using the OPQ32n (SHL, 2006) to measure personality, reported sample-size corrected correlations of 0.38, 0.33, and 0.40 between job engagement and Emotional Stability, Extraversion, and Conscientiousness, respectively. The correlations for Agreeableness and Openness to Experience were more modest (0.16 and 0.22, respectively). Overall, these findings and additional reviews by Langelaan et al. (2006), Kim et al. (2009), and Mäkikangas et al. (2013) suggest that trait Neuroticism, Conscientiousness, and Extraversion can potentially be used to predict engagement in organizational contexts.

Beyond “broad” personality dimensions, “narrow” trait personality measures (e.g. sub-facets of the Big 5) might also predict engagement. Inceoglu and Warr (2011), for example, found that the more energized facets of Social Potency (a facet of Extraversion) and Achievement Orientation (a facet of Conscientiousness with sub-facets “vigorous” and “achieving”) were significantly associated with engagement. Other trait-like factors such as Generalized Self-Efficacy, Hope, Optimism, Resilience (see Luthans et al., 2007), Core Self-Evaluation (see Rich et al., 2010), and Proactive Personality (Bateman and Crant, 1993) have also been conceptually and empirically linked to engagement. Employees who are dispositionally self-efficacious and proactive are likely to “use their initiative […], engage in proactive service performance […], take charge to bring about change […], proactively solve problems, and implement ideas” (Parker and Collins, 2010, p. 634). It needs to be noted, that although the research evidence clearly shows that personality is associated with engagement, additional research is needed to assess the relative influence of personality vs contextual level variables (e.g. organizational climate, HR practices) and job-level resources (e.g. job autonomy, skill variety, supervisor support). Furthermore, trait activation theory (Tett and Burnett, 2003) suggests that selecting for engagement will only be relevant if the organizational context supports or “activates” the personality traits most predictive of engagement. Therefore, as per Figure 1, organizations need to create the organizational context, job context, and the psychological and motivational factors that support the authentic expression of personal traits (Kahn, 1990; Tett and Burnett, 2003). Organizations that do not invest in the systems, processes and practices that support engagement should not select for engagement:

P4. Both broad and narrow personality dimensions can be included in selection processes aimed at embedding employee engagement in organizational contexts.
