---
source_path: journal_of_organizational_effectiveness_people_and_performance.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: eace07c7a12246278aeaca70f2069be3a213f72e
title: journal_of_organizational_effectiveness_people_and_performance
---
# I

d e d a o l n w o D

organizational performance. Nonetheless, the conceptual and empirical links between HRM practices and employee engagement, and between engagement and performance, are not well established (Guest, 2014; Sparrow, 2014; Sparrow and Balain, 2010). To date, there has only been limited research examining how HRM practices influence individual and organizational outcomes through employee engagement (e.g. Alfes et al., 2013a, b; Sparrow, 2014; Truss et al., 2013). Given that employee engagement is fundamentally a motivational construct, further integration of the engagement and HR literatures and frameworks (e.g. AMO, HPHRPs) is clearly warranted.

In the following sections, we first provide a brief overview of employee engagement and describe how it can function as an integrating construct explaining individual performance, organizational performance, and competitive advantage. Then, and consistent with Figure 1, we describe how four key engagement-related HR practices (employeeselection,socialization,performancemanagement,andlearningand development) influence organizational climate, the demands and resources experienced by employees in their work roles, the psychological experience of meaningfulness, safety and availability, employee engagement, and attitudinal, behavioural and performance outcomes. Even though we address each HRM practice as a relatively discrete element of the HRM system, the SHRM and HPHRP literatures suggest that synergistic systems or “bundles” of HRM practices are more effective at influencing individual and organizational outcomes, and ultimately competitive advantage, than discrete or disconnected HRM practices and initiatives (Becker and Huselid, 2006). Overall, with a focus on engagement, we aim to contribute towards explaining the “black boxes” that describe “the strategic logic between a firm’s HRM architecture and its subsequent performance” (Becker and Huselid, 2006, p. 899):

P1. Human resource practices strategically focused on engagement will directly influence organizational climate and will directly and indirectly influence the demands and resources experienced by employees in their work roles, the psychological experience of meaningfulness, safety and availability, employee engagement and attitudinal, behavioural, and performance outcomes.

Employee engagement While there remains some disagreement among scholars and practitioners about how best to define and measure work engagement (see Bakker et al., 2011), engagement is most often defined within the academic domain as “[…] a positive, fulfilling, work-related state of mind that is characterized by vigour, dedication, and absorption” (Schaufeli et al., 2002, p. 74). More broadly, Kahn (1990, 2010) described engagement as the harnessing of people’s selves to their work, such that they fully invest their physical, cognitive, and emotional resources in their work roles. In essence, work engagement is manifested as energy, involvement and a focused striving towards the achievement of organizational goals (Macey and Schneider, 2008; Schaufeli et al., 2002). (2014) argued that despite having slightly different perspectives there Schaufeli are core commonalities between the Kahn (1990) and the Schaufeli et al. (2002) conceptualizations and measures of engagement. Schaufeli noted that both share similar physical-energetic (vigour), emotional (dedication), and cognitive (absorption) components. Although it is unlikely there will ever be universal agreement about a single definition and measure of engagement, energy, involvement and a willingness to contribute to organizational success are nevertheless core to the construct (Bakker et al., 2011). Importantly, researchers (e.g. Christian et al., 2011) have shown that work
