# DEVELOPMENT OF GOAL SETTING THEORY

Among my other ﬁndings in that time period was that goals improve performance in the ab- sence of monetary incentives. For example, they did so for unionized loggers (Latham & Baldes, 1975) and truck drivers (Latham & Saari, 1982),4 who were paid by the hour. They also did so for scientists/engineers, most of whom possessed graduate degrees. Consistent with the goal setting theory, those individuals who were urged to do their best despite receiv- ing praise, public recognition, or a monetary bonus performed no better than those in the control group. The scientists/engineers who par- ticipated in the goal-setting process had the same level of goal commitment as those who had been assigned goals. But, as was the case with the loggers (Latham & Yukl, 1975), the difﬁculty level of the participatively set goals was higher than the goals that had been assigned by a manager. For the same reason, as was the case with the loggers, job performance was in the participative goal condition highest (Latham, Mitchell, & Dossett, 1978). Subse- quent laboratory experiments (e.g., Latham & Saari, 1979; Latham, Steele, & Saari, 1982), as well as an earlier ﬁeld experiment involving word processing operators (Latham & Yukl, 1976), showed that when goal difﬁculty be- tween conditions is the same, the performance of those with assigned versus participatively set goals does not differ.

Locke and I met at the 1974 annual meeting of the American Psychological Association. As noted earlier, we coauthored our ﬁrst paper to- gether a year later (Latham & Locke, 1975). Based on data from the American Pulpwood Association, we discovered that pulpwood crews, paid on a piece rate basis and restricted to cutting wood to 2–3 days a week cut as much as they normally did in a 5-day week. The restricted number of days had become a spe- ciﬁc, challenging time frame (i.e., a goal).

In 1968, Locke published an article entitled “Toward a Theory of Task Motivation and In- centives” based primarily on the results of his early goal-setting experiments and the ideas of Mace. But there was insufﬁcient empirical evi- dence at that time to build a formal theory. However, the evidence supporting the develop- ment of a theory soon began to accumulate based on hundreds of studies conducted by our- selves and others. Thus, in 1990 we published a book that presents the goal setting theory based on approximately 400 studies (Locke & Latham, 1990).

A good theory must be based on a clear deﬁ-