# LOCKE AND LATHAM

manner (Latham, Erez, & Locke, 1988).6 That an assigned goal was as effective as a partici- patively set goal ran counter to the prevailing belief in I-O psychology (e.g., Likert, 1967). The explanation for this seemingly contradic- tory ﬁnding was provided in an experiment by Latham, Winters, and Locke (1994). Research- ers, including us, had been looking in the wrong direction. That is, we were searching in vain for the motivational effects of participation in set- tings goals (e.g., commitment) when the main beneﬁt is cognitive. A mediation analysis re- vealed that the quality of the strategies that are used is responsible for the high performance of the individuals who participate in the goal- setting process. Scully, Kirkpatrick, and Locke (1995) found that participation’s beneﬁts were based on knowledge exchange.

which participants sought to increase market share under rapidly evolving changes in the telecommunications industry, the researchers found that those who had a speciﬁc, challenging learning goal to discover and implement a spe- ciﬁc number of strategies or were urged to do their best signiﬁcantly increased market share versus those with a speciﬁc challenging perfor- mance goal. A learning goal orientation pre- dicted performance only when a vague goal had been set, namely to do one’s best. In short, speciﬁc goal setting masked the effect of a learning goal orientation on subsequent perfor- mance. Self-efﬁcacy and information search (strategy) mediated the learning goal–perfor- mance effect.