---
source_path: leveraging_machine_learning_for_employee_resignation_prediction_in_hr_analytics.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 61cf8253673ec40bab78299ec033406602bec128
title: leveraging_machine_learning_for_employee_resignation_prediction_in_hr_analytics
---
# Xiang Fang

it also identi(cid:2647)ed key reasons for employee resignation. (cid:2399)is re- search provides useful input for organizations to manage a(cid:2386)rition successfully [15].

In a (cid:2647)rst-of-its-kind, Nawaz et al. (2024) applied sequential pat- tern mining in analyzing and classifying employee a(cid:2386)rition and absenteeism in industrial se(cid:2386)ings. (cid:2399)eir model not only allowed for precise predictions about the behaviour of employees but also gave actionable insights to organizations to enhance their policies, culture, and regulatory environment [16]. Wang et al. (2024) ex- tended the use of Deep Neural Networks (DNN) to the construction industry to forecast corporate malfeasance from social network data. (cid:2399)eir research acknowledges the potential of DNN to forecast a broad range of outcomes, resulting in a safer and more ethi- cal workplace [17]. Sairam and Voruganti (2022) used DNN with context information in employee mental health problem predic- tion. (cid:2399)eir predictive ability enables the organization to provide timely assistance to employees and manage a(cid:2386)rition for mental health reasons [18]. Demonstrating deep learning (cid:2648)exibility, Jar- rah and Derbali (2023) used deep learning methods in predicting stock prices in the stock market, demonstrating deep learning use in diverse prediction tasks beyond HR analytics [19]. Meier and Laumer (2022) proposed a DNN model for the accurate prediction of future employee numbers in HR sta(cid:2649)ng. (cid:2399)eir model, by taking into consideration scheduled new hires and anticipated a(cid:2386)rition, provides a complete image of future sta(cid:2649)ng needs, enabling strate- gic HR planning [20]. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Mohanan and Rajarathinam (2023) used ORS-DNN in HR management re- search during the shi(cid:2383) to work from home. (cid:2399)eir research provides insight into employee performance and a(cid:2386)rition management in the work-from-home arrangement [21]. Last but not least, Hus- sain (2024) used regression models to predict employee salaries in HR Management Systems (HRMS). His research demonstrates machine learning’s role in salary structure optimization, resulting in employee satisfaction and retention [22].

3 Method 3.1 Problem Formulation Employee a(cid:2386)rition prediction as a classi(cid:2647)cation task is a complex and signi(cid:2647)cant problem in human resources analytics. Here, the general aim is to predict correctly whether the employee will leave the company (where a(cid:2386) a(cid:2386)rition is to be 1) or stay (with a(cid:2386) a(cid:2386)ri- tion = 0). (cid:2399)is is a complex problem with numerous challenges, given the dynamic and complex nature of employee features and their interactions in the organizational se(cid:2386)ing. A full feature vector uniquely represents each employee in the company. (cid:2399)is feature vector represents a wide range of information that can in(cid:2648)uence the employee’s stay or leave decision. For instance, features like age can be a signi(cid:2647)cant factor because di(cid:2646)erent ages can have di(cid:2646)er- ent career goals, family status, and levels of job stability. Younger employees are likely to be more inclined to change jobs for career growth, while older employees can be more focused on the stability of their jobs and well-established work routines. Job satisfaction is another signi(cid:2647)cant feature. Employees with high job satisfaction levels concerning the nature of the job, relations with colleagues and management, and professional development opportunities are
