# 5 Categorising and Benchmarking

Engagement ‘levels’

Some survey providers will categorise the respondents into groups (e.g. (cid:513)engaged(cid:514), (cid:513)unengaged(cid:514) and (cid:513)disengaged(cid:514)) based on their engagement indicator scores. This labelling can be useful when analysing survey results and making comparisons between different groups (for example, by location, area of work, grade, type of contract etc). However, there is a danger of moving on from simple labelling, towards making assumptions about the people with these labels (Fletcher and Robinson, (cid:344)(cid:342)(cid:343)(cid:345)(cid:508). The reality is that all (cid:513)engaged(cid:514) people are not the same, and neither are all the (cid:513)unengaged(cid:514) or (cid:513)disengaged(cid:514) people. “ny advice about the best ways of tackling low engagement scores, or the likely benefits of different interventions, should be treated with caution if the basis of the advice is nothing more than the engagement scores themselves (Fletcher and Robinson, 2013). Currently, the publicly available National NHS staff survey reports do not categorise respondents into groups based on their engagement score. However, individual Trusts may use their data to categorise their workforce in this way. If a Trust does choose to categorise their employees into engagement (cid:513)groups(cid:514) e.g. highly engaged, moderately engaged, disengaged etc, then, it should be careful in how it views the (cid:513)attributes(cid:514) of each group, and how it communicates this information to managers. This may seem common sense, but it may be tempting to attribute more stable characteristics such as personality or behavioural traits to these categories, when actually the results are about how people feel at a particular point in time. Despite this, it may be useful to see the distribution of engagement levels across the organisation, and to conduct further analysis to understand whether (cid:513)groups(cid:514) differ in what factors may (dis)engage them. This may help with developing an engagement strategy that can be flexed to meet the needs of different groups.

The annual staff survey reports compiled for each NHS Trust includes benchmarking data. This can be used to inform organisational and people management strategies as it enables the Trust to position and visualise themselves within the national NHS context. This is reflected by Steve Trenchard, Chief Executive of Derbyshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust:

(cid:515)The NHS Staff Survey and in particular the engagement measure is an important indicator that our Trust Board uses to gain assurance. It provides an indication of how

11

aligned our workforce is to the values and vision of our strategy and the overall direction of the Trust. The scores provide helpful benchmarking with other trusts which of itself provides the ”oard with some assurance when compared to others(cid:516)

However, benchmarking can sometimes be used ineffectively or in detrimental ways. This may particularly be the case if the organisation focuses exclusively on its relative position within a (cid:513)league(cid:514) table of organisations without considering how important differences between itself and other Trusts may be influencing benchmarking results, such as differences in organisational culture, work practices, relative size and rate of growth/change. Benchmarking should be used to supplement findings, rather than be the focus of findings.

The NHS staff survey reports use both internal and external forms of benchmarking. The internal benchmarks are a(cid:508) the Trust(cid:514)s levels of engagement and other key findings indicators (KFs) in the previous year, and b) the levels of engagement and other KFs across the different occupational groups within the Trust.

The first shows whether the Trust has reduced, similar or improved levels of staff engagement, satisfaction, morale and wellbeing since the previous year. This may be a useful indicator of progress, improvement or success associated with interventions or initiatives. However, relying on this information alone is not sufficient to (cid:513)prove(cid:514) whether a strategy has been successful, and yearly changes may be caused by other, more general, factors that affect the NHS as a whole. Therefore, combining this data with information on overall trends within the NHS, and with other sources of (cid:513)evidence(cid:514), such as interviews with staff and data on sickness absence/staff turnover/ patient outcomes, is recommended.

The second, using the un-weighted scores, indicates which occupational groups within the Trust have the highest/lowest or typical/atypical levels of engagement, satisfaction, morale and wellbeing. It may be useful to identify which groups or teams may be particularly vulnerable, and in need of an intervention to foster engagement. However, it would be necessary to examine wider trends within the NHS and other healthcare organisations to see whether these issues are specific to the Trust or are symptomatic of general occupational differences that may need addressing at an NHS-wide level.

The external benchmarks are a(cid:508) the Trust(cid:514)s level of engagement and other KFs compared with the national average for that type of Trust in that year, and b(cid:508) the Trust(cid:514)s level of engagement and other KFs compared with the best performing Trust for that type of Trust in that year.

Comparing with the national average provides the Trust with an indication of where it (cid:513)ranks(cid:514), within the NHS as a whole, in terms of staff engagement and other key indicators of morale and wellbeing. If the Trust consistently outperforms the

12

Institute for Employment Studies

average NHS Trust on a range of indicators, then this may suggest that it has a highly motivated, engaged and productive workforce. On the other hand, it may be that the organisation has enforced a (cid:513)hard(cid:514) approach to increasing engagement that focuses, exclusively, on productivity and performance, which may be detrimental to morale and wellbeing in the long term (Jenkins and Delbridge, 2013). It may also be that employees (cid:513)have(cid:514) to engage because they feel more insecure and uncertain about their long-term job prospects. To try to make their situation more stable and secure, employees may (cid:513)pretend(cid:514) to engage and may make more effort to (cid:513)look good(cid:514) to their employer (Gourlay et al, 2012), yet this may lead to stress and burnout in the long-term if the employee is not receiving anything in return from the organisation (Schaufeli and Salanova, 2011). Therefore, managers may want to understand how wider tensions and issues that are affecting their staff may be influencing the Trust(cid:514)s benchmarking score.

Comparing against the best performing Trust may be a useful way to identify how a Trust can become a (cid:513)top(cid:514) or (cid:513)best practice(cid:514) organisation for engagement and morale. However, this assumes that the (cid:513)best performing(cid:514) Trust and the other Trusts have the same environmental, cultural, historical, and patient configuration conditions. In reality no two Trusts would be the same, and so consideration should be given to how NHS Trusts may differ in terms of context and what impact these differences have on the scope and approach to foster engagement. It is recommended that those responsible or involved in developing an engagement strategy take regular opportunities to share insights about initiatives, practices and the local context with other Trusts to develop a fuller understanding of what might work and what might not for their own Trust. NHS Employers has a range of resources available to facilitate such opportunities (see www.nhsemployers.org)

13