# 3 Measuring Engagement

As there are many definitions of engagement in use, there are also many different measures of engagement. Typically a measure of engagement will ask respondents to rate a number of questionnaire statements, according to how much they agree- disagree with them or how frequently they experience the feeling or thought each statement refers to. Any measure of engagement should correspond with the particular definition being used, and should be valid in terms of content (i.e. should fully capture the defined construct). Preliminary findings from Truss et al(cid:514)s (forthcoming) show that engagement has been measured in many different ways.

The most commonly used measure, within the research community has been the one associated with the definition of engagement as a (cid:515)positive, fulfilling, work related state of mind(cid:516) (cid:507)Schaufeli et al, (cid:344)(cid:342)(cid:342)(cid:344), p.(cid:349)(cid:346)(cid:508). This is known as the (cid:513)Utrecht Work Engagement Scale(cid:514) (cid:507)UWES(cid:498) Schaufeli and ”akker, (cid:344)(cid:342)(cid:342)(cid:345)(cid:508), which captures feelings of vigour (cid:507)e.g. (cid:513)“t my work, I feel that I am bursting with energy(cid:514)), dedication (e.g. (cid:513)I am enthusiastic about my job(cid:514)) and absorption (e.g. (cid:514)I am immersed in my work(cid:514)).

However, there is a developing field of other ways to measure engagement. There are several measures associated with the definition of engagement as the authentic expression of one(cid:514)s preferred self at work (Kahn, 1990; Truss et al, forthcoming). The most recent of these is Soane et al(cid:514)s (cid:507)(cid:344)(cid:342)(cid:343)(cid:344)(cid:508) 9-item ISA engagement measure that captures three components(cid:497) intellectual engagement (cid:507)e.g. (cid:513)I focus hard on my work(cid:514)), social engagement (cid:507)e.g. (cid:513)I share the same work values as my colleagues(cid:514)), and affective engagement (cid:507)e.g. (cid:513)I feel positive about my job(cid:514)). In their study, the ISA measure seemed to be more powerful than the UWES in predicting performance indicators.

Some researchers have attempted to examine whether engagement can be differentiated between engagement with the job versus engagement with the organisation. Saks (2006) developed two 6-item questionnaire scales: job engagement (e.g. (cid:514)This job is all consuming, I am totally into it(cid:514) and (cid:513)I really throw myself into my job(cid:514)) and organisation engagement (e.g.(cid:514)One of the most exciting things for me is getting involved with things happening in this organization(cid:514) and (cid:513)”eing a member of this organization makes me come alive(cid:514)). This measure focuses on activated emotions such as feeling alive and exhilarated (Fletcher and Robinson, 2013).

5

Within the practitioner community, a vast number of measures have been developed, perhaps due to the commercialisation of survey products by consultancies and survey houses. These tend to capture various aspects of an employee(cid:514)s engagement with the organisation rather than with work. For example, IES (Robinson et al, 2004) has developed a 12-item measure that covers: a) pride in the organisation (e.g. (cid:513)I speak highly of this organisation to my friends(cid:514)); b) belief in the organisation (cid:507)e.g. (cid:513)I would be happy to recommend this organisation(cid:514)s products/services to my friends and family(cid:514)(cid:508)(cid:498) c(cid:508) a willingness to go beyond what is required (cid:507)e.g. (cid:513)I try to help others in this organization whenever I can(cid:514)(cid:508)(cid:498) and d(cid:508) an understanding of the (cid:513)bigger picture(cid:514) (cid:507)e.g. (cid:513)I find that my values and the organisation(cid:514)s are very similar(cid:514)). However, within the NIHR evidence synthesis, few studies utilising such measures were found in peer-reviewed publications, and the majority were not of good research quality (Truss et al, forthcoming). Only one measure by Swanberg et al (2011) was included; this captured engagement via three dimensions: cognitive (e.g. (cid:513)It would take a lot to get me to leave CitiSales(cid:514)), emotional (e.g. (cid:513)I really care about the future of CitiSales(cid:514)) and behavioural (e.g. (cid:513)I would highly recommend CitiSales to a friend seeking employment(cid:514)).

Within the NHS, employee engagement is measured as a multidimensional attitude via three dimensions (West and Dawson, 2012). This represents both engagement with work (i.e. motivation) and with the organisation (i.e. advocacy and involvement):

a) Motivation: This reflects an enthusiasm for and psychological attachment to

the activities of the job. In the 2013 staff survey1 these appeared as q5a, 5b and 5c: (cid:513)I look forward to going to work(cid:514), (cid:513)I am enthusiastic about my job(cid:514) and (cid:513)Time passes quickly when I am working(cid:514).

b) Advocacy: This signifies a belief that the organisation is a good employer as well as service provider and is worthy of recommendation to others. These appeared as q 12c and (cid:343)(cid:344)d in the (cid:513)your organisation(cid:514) section of the (cid:344)(cid:342)(cid:343)(cid:345) staff survey: (cid:513)I would recommend my Trust as a place to work(cid:514) and (cid:513)If a friend or relative needed treatment I would be happy with the standard of care provided by this organisation(cid:514).

c) Involvement: This refers to employees feeling that they have opportunities to suggest and make improvements to their own job as well as to the wider workgroup or organisation. These appeared as questions 7a to 7d in the (cid:513)opportunities to develop potential at work(cid:514) section in the 2013 staff survey: (cid:513)I am able to make improvements happen in my area of work(cid:514), (cid:513)There are frequent opportunities for me to show initiative in my role(cid:514), (cid:513)I am able to make suggestions to