# 6.2 Team/Workgroup-level actions

Developing line management capabilities to provide supportive and empowering supervision as well as to demonstrate inspirational leadership behaviours.

Engagement may be particularly boosted when line managers are able to communicate to their staff the wider meaning and significance of their work to the organisation and to patients; and when line managers provide their staff with the resources, information and equipment needed to perform their jobs well. Alongside the engagement indicators, the scores from the (cid:513)opportunities to develop potential at work(cid:514) (cid:507)qs (cid:349)e, f and g(cid:508), (cid:513)contribution to patient care(cid:514) (cid:507)q (cid:351)(cid:508), (cid:513)line management(cid:514) (cid:507)q (cid:343)(cid:342)(cid:508) and (cid:513)your organisation(cid:514) sections (cid:507)qs (cid:343)(cid:344)a, (cid:343)(cid:344)b and (cid:343)(cid:345)(cid:508) may be useful to examine here (i.e. KF 1, 2, 3, 9 and 24). If, on average, employees feel that they do not have adequate resources or equipment to do their jobs, feel unable to provide a meaningful and high quality service to patients, and feel that the organisation does not prioritise the care of patients, then they are likely to experience low levels of engagement. Therefore, enabling and empowering employees to perform well in their jobs and to deliver a high quality, meaningful service may be especially important. “n organisation(cid:514)s engagement strategy may, therefore, focus on these elements by raising the competencies and capabilities of line managers, so that they are able to enable and empower their direct reports. These aspects are largely covered by two factors (i.e. great management and making every role count) within the staff engagement star framework (seewww.nhsemployers.org).

Strengthening the relationships and sharing of resources within workgroups and departments.

Teams may be able to develop a strong climate of engagement by supporting, trusting and encouraging one another. In addition, West and Dawson (2012) found that, within the NHS, well-structured teams were more engaged than pseudo-teams and those not in teams. “longside the engagement indicators, the (cid:513)team-based working(cid:514) (cid:507)q (cid:346)(cid:508) and (cid:513)your health, wellbeing and safety at work(cid:514) sections (cid:507)q (cid:343)(cid:349), (cid:344)(cid:342), (cid:344)(cid:343) and 23) may be useful to examine here (i.e. KF 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 28). Employees that feel that their workgroup/team does not communicate well and does not share the same goals, or have experienced discrimination, harassment, bullying, abuse or violence whilst at work may not be highly engaged. Therefore,

16

Institute for Employment Studies

organisations with these issues may want to focus on developing an engagement strategy that focuses on fostering a positive social climate and sense of team identity. Interventions aimed at stopping incidences of harassment and violence, developing social support systems, and improving team-level recognition, reward and performance management practices may be part of this type of strategy. Some of these aspects, specifically around health and wellbeing, are covered by the staff engagement star framework under the (cid:513)promoting a healthy and safe work environment(cid:514) factor (cid:507)see www.nhsemployers.org for more detail).