data/clean/measuring_employee__chunk0033.md, before:

## Andrew Foster – Chief Executive, and Nicole Ferguson – Staff Engagement Lead

The staff engagement journey at Wrightington, Wigan and Leigh NHS Foundation Trust (WWL) started over 15 years ago with (cid:513)Staff Involvement Delivers(cid:514) – a partnership initiative between HR and Staff side. We needed staff to be engaged with what was happening within the Trust. Our (cid:515)Conversations with(cid:516) events gave staff opportunities to raise issues and concerns directly to Directors, and (cid:515)walkabouts(cid:516) gave Directors more insight into the particular challenges the front- line was facing. In 2011 our NHS staff survey results were, on the whole, below the national average; with only a minority of indicators above the national average. Therefore, we decided to further energise staff engagement through the Listening into Action (LiA) programme and a partnership with Unipart. LiA focused on large- scale staff listening events with Directors and embedding staff engagement at the team-level by enabling staff to run their own listening events and localised service improvements. The partnership with Unipart initiated a cultural change programme using lean methodology.

From reflecting on these experiences, we have developed our unique brand of staff engagement – (cid:513)the WWL Way(cid:514). This has expanded and enriched our approach to fostering engagement; with a focus on sustainability and collaboration. Our approach is underpinned by the way we view engagement as a (cid:513)pathway(cid:514) to delivering excellent patient care (see figure 1). Through staff feedback, we gauge levels of staff engagement (feelings and behaviours), and identify the factors that help us better understand what enables improved staff engagement, which we call our (cid:515)(cid:351) staff engagement enablers(cid:516). This in turn leads to a number of impacts on patient care such as higher patient satisfaction and lower absenteeism.

This pathway feeds into the broader (cid:513)WWL Way Model(cid:514) (cid:507)see figure (cid:344)(cid:508). The nine enablers of staff engagement are the foundations on which interventions, events, toolkits and monitoring activities are based. This model provides a structure for understanding staff engagement more deeply. We use feedback from our staff pulse check surveys and listening events to focus our efforts in the right places, and

20

Institute for Employment Studies

respond to the ever changing needs of staff. We are also using the model to identify specific staff engagement issues within teams, through the Staff Engagement Pioneer Teams Programme, and our staff engagement toolkit now offers teams a choice of solutions to apply locally. In addition, we want staff to find and promote new ways to improve engagement, with support and advice at every step in their journey.

The impact of the WWL Way is clear to see. In addition to major improvements in our national staff survey scores in 2012/2013, we have seen significant reductions in sickness absence (down from 4.62% in April 2012 to 4.17% in Dec 2013) and expenditure of temporary staffing (down from £15 million in 2011/2012 to £12 million in 2012/2013). Our journey has involved a long-term commitment to our staff and our patients. Staff engagement takes time and investment and above all needs active participation from senior leaders to ensure the WWL Way becomes embedded as (cid:513)the way we do things around here(cid:514).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/measuring_employee__chunk0033.md, after:

---
source_path: measuring_employee.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a5dae37aae47435c72ce249060ac2d0658453ef8
title: measuring_employee
---
# 7 Summary

To summarise, employee engagement has been defined and measured in many different ways. Despite this, the NHS has a clear and consistent way of understanding, assessing and interpreting engagement within their healthcare context. “dopting Robinson et al(cid:514)s (cid:507)(cid:344)(cid:342)(cid:342)(cid:346)(cid:508) definition of engagement as a (cid:513)positive attitude towards the organisation and its values(cid:514), the NHS measure of staff engagement includes psychological engagement, advocacy, and involvement dimensions. Engagement scores are presented using a mean average calculation that is weighted to account for occupational differences across the Trusts. The results of the annual NHS staff survey are made publicly available and these reports make use of internal and external benchmarking to aid interpretation of the findings for each Trust. Trusts can develop engagement strategies that focus on training and development, job and organisation design, line management development, communication practices, and team-level wellbeing and reward initiatives.

19

8 Case Study on ‘The WWL Way’ at Wrightington, Wigan and Leigh NHS Foundation Trust
