data/clean/microsoft_word_jole_8_2_fall_2009_doc__chunk0004.md, before:

## Journal of Leadership Education Volume 8, Issue 2 – Fall 2009

While most leadership educators are referring to traditional, faculty-led educational programs when discussing leadership skill development, persons from another part of the college campus argue that their programs are also instrumental in leadership development. Organized athletic teams offer the student a different experiential program that many argue develops leadership. Ewing, Gano- Overway, Branta, and Seefeldt (2002) argue that sport contributes to learning the skills and values necessary to succeed in education, in the workforce and throughout life. Similarly, Astin (1993) and Ryan (1989) contend that athletic participation among college students relates positively to growth in interpersonal skills, peer relationships, and leadership abilities. Danish (1986) defines some of these skills as the ability to perform under pressure, solve problems, meet deadlines and challenges, set goals, communicate, handle success and failure, work in a group and within a system, and receive feedback and benefit from it.

Dupuis, Bloom, and Loughead (2006) analyzed semi-structured interviews with former university team captains. They concluded that team captain experiences developed interpersonal characteristics, verbal interactions, and task behaviors – all elements of leadership. Based on a review of empirical data, Iso-Aloha and Hatfield (1986) concluded that early athletic participation might contribute to later success in leadership through reinforcement of critical behaviors. Snyder and Spreitzer’s (1992) study of over 4,000 high school males led them to conclude that athletic participation appears to increase the potential ability to lead. Consistent results were found by Dobosz and Beaty (1999) who found that in a sample of 60 suburban high school students, athletes demonstrated significantly greater leadership ability than did non-athletes. DeMoulin (2002) found that high school seniors who were involved in organized sports were better able to get along with all kinds of people (social integration), a critical skill for leaders of diverse groups. Aries, McCarthy, Salovey, and Banaji (2004) compared athletes and non-athletes at highly selective colleges. They reported that high-commitment athletes had a higher perception of themselves as socially skilled, outgoing, confident, and good leaders.

Not all studies have demonstrated a relationship between athletic team participation and leadership skill development. In his early anthropological study of Little League baseball, Fine (1987) concluded that sports participation has no general effect on self-image; it does not reduce prejudice nor is it necessary for leadership development. Danish, Petitpas, and Hale (1990) argue that overall the empirical literature does not support a cause-effect relationship between sport participation and social competence. While high school coaches rank learning life skills second of 15 reasons they believe young people should participate in sports, they concede that by ranking it ninth as an outcome then in reality, it does not happen (Lesyk, 2000). DeMoulin’s (2002) study of high school seniors found that those who participated in organized sports scored significantly lower on a

225

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:106)(cid:111)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:56)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:50)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:49)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:54)(cid:53)(cid:57)(cid:56)(cid:53)(cid:47)(cid:118)(cid:56)(cid:95)(cid:105)(cid:50)(cid:95)(cid:114)(cid:102)(cid:55)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/microsoft_word_jole_8_2_fall_2009_doc__chunk0004.md, after:

---
source_path: microsoft_word_jole_8_2_fall_2009_doc.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 87b3f91320837533f0a3e990bdf157c1c9b995bc
title: microsoft_word_jole_8_2_fall_2009_doc
---
# Introduction

The question of whether leadership is learnable has received considerable attention in the academic and practitioner arenas. Doh (2003) presented the perspectives of several prominent management educators on this topic. He concluded that several aspects of leadership might be enhanced through various learning experiences. Additionally, it was suggested “leadership skills are best acquired as part of a practical, experiential educational program” (p. 64).

224

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:106)(cid:111)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:56)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:50)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:49)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:54)(cid:53)(cid:57)(cid:56)(cid:53)(cid:47)(cid:118)(cid:56)(cid:95)(cid:105)(cid:50)(cid:95)(cid:114)(cid:102)(cid:55)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)
