---
source_path: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7c3a61e6e4d849707a037a0e03baa70d5ff91a74
title: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer
---
# Description of the problem

In both the public and commercial sectors, performance evaluation plays a significant role in the overall operations of human resource management. Employee motivation is greatly impacted by performance reviews. Staff members are less likely to want to be upfront about work-related challenges or to acknowledge that they need additional training if they believe it would negatively impact their next pay rise. Employees may become less motivated and consider looking for other employment opportunities or become less productive as a result of inaccurate appraisals, according to Solmon and Podgursky. The water and sewerage corporations are essential to the realisation of Kenya Vision 2030 and national development.

Productivity among employees is a crucial criterion for any organisation. Many businesses have not been successful in inspiring their staff to work towards the goals and objectives of the company. The performance of Kenya's water and sewerage corporations has stagnated, according to a WASREB analysis for the years, as a result of uncommitted personnel. The water service sector is driven by three main objectives: ensuring accessibility, ensuring that the initial investment is returned, and improving performance through loss reduction. None of these indices, however, have significantly improved since the year 2015. The low staff productivity in the industry is a contributing factor to the aforementioned predicament. One of the major performance factors for the overall success of the water industry is employee productivity. However, the research claims that employee productivity has been flat for the years.

According to the WASREB 2018 impact assessment, the majority of the water and sewerage firms in Kiambu County performed below the national average of 7 employees per 1000 connections. Kiambu water and sewerage services sector policy from 2017 states that there is a need to improve water and sewerage services given the county's high population growth rate, which is primarily attributable to the influx of people working in Nairobi city who prefer to stay in the county and its surroundings where there is less traffic and well-developed infrastructure. A study was conducted to ascertain the relationship between productivity and performance evaluation. The study made use of an instance of chosen WHO officers. It was shown that organisations should regularly inform their employees to improve efficiency. A study on how
