---
source_path: microsoft_word_21523873_file000000_468158165_docx.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 897a936a89be7fc4653fdc80b38cda4998f5bf82
title: microsoft_word_21523873_file000000_468158165_docx
---
## together at ‘something hard’ (Stone et al., 2011, p. xi).

Delaying difficult conversations is another prominent theme in self(cid:47)help books. As suggested by

Stone et al. (2011), those who delay difficult conversations are more likely to be individuals who

hold negative feelings about themselves, feel they are being taken advantage of, or do not speak up for

themselves. Stone et al. (2011) further speculate that individuals will either delay or do not have

difficult conversations because of their own perceptions of the outcomes of the conversation. That is

an individual’s perceptions of their own negative thoughts or feelings will presumably make them feel

uncomfortable or vulnerable. Therefore they might choose to ignore a difficult situation or use other

tactics rather than address the difficult situation or issue.

(cid:37)(cid:12)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:36)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:11)(cid:2)(cid:12)(cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:25)(cid:8)(cid:15)(cid:4)(cid:15)(cid:25)(cid:12)(cid:21)(cid:2)(cid:4)(cid:8)(cid:17)(cid:9)(cid:13)(cid:18)(cid:14)(cid:8)

Only two peer(cid:47)reviewed papers on the topic of difficult conversations outside the healthcare context

were identified in the literature review. Both these papers have been published in the last three years,

indicating that ‘difficult conversations’ is a new field of inquiry in the field of management, with

strong potential for further scholarly research. One of these papers is a rich conceptual analysis by

6

Bies (2012) who, echoing his healthcare counterparts, frames the theme of difficult conversations

more specifically as the delivery of bad news. This scholar proposes an analytic framework to

understand ‘the delivery of bad news in organisations’ (Bies, 2012, p. 139), conceptualising this

phenomenon as ‘a process involving a variety of activities that take place in three different, but

interrelated phases—preparation, delivery and transition’. The (cid:19)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:13)(cid:15)(cid:7)(cid:2)(cid:9)(cid:10) phase refers to

psychological preparation which is important in terms of how the receiver will respond to the bad

news; the (cid:25)(cid:12)(cid:6)(cid:2)(cid:11)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:20) phase refers to activities that take place during the communication of bad news;

and the (cid:7)(cid:13)(cid:15)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:2)(cid:7)(cid:2)(cid:9)(cid:10) phase refers to the period following the communication of bad news, involving an

evaluation of the exchange to ascertain whether the issue was resolved.

Bies’ (2012) framework guides his comprehensive literature review of works on professionals who

routinely deliver bad news as part of their occupations (e.g., doctors, coroners and law enforcement

officials). This enables Bies (2012) to identify new directions for qualitative research on the following

themes: how managers and executives deliver and manage bad news; the different processes

associated with both routine and ‘extreme forms’ of bad news (p.153); the interplay of different

strategic functions of bad news management activities; and the value of organisational justice theory,

impression management theory and coping theory to analyse bad news management activities. One of

Bies’ (2012, p. 156) conclusions also resonates with the medical literature (Fallowfield and Jenkins,

- 2004) that ‘the badness of any news is “in the eye of the beholder”’ – that is, the meaning of bad

news may be ‘construed differently by different people’.

The other peer(cid:47)reviewed work that provides useful insights on difficult conversations is a paper by

Polito (2013), highlighting the importance of good communication skills to handle difficult

conversations. While this work is primarily aimed at healthcare workers (and is indeed published in a
