---
source_path: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6d364c0403e1868ef4085b58ffc4d8bd0836d539
title: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer
---
# A Textbook of Industrial Psychology

prioritizes the requirements of the person based on the fundamental physical, biological, social, and psychological needs of humans. Physiological needs (food, shelter, clothing), safety and security needs (physical protection), social needs (association with others), esteem needs (receiving recognition from others), and self-actualization needs (the desire for accomplishment or to leave a legacy) are the categories listed above in decreasing order of importance.Like everyone else, teachers have needs that must be met. In addition to their fundamental requirements for food, clothes, shelter, safety from physical injury, and social connection, adolescents also require the respect and admiration of their peers, parents, and teachers.

- 2. Herzberg's Motivator-Hygiene Two-Factor Theory

Herzberg's Two-factor theory, also known as Motivator-Hygiene, was born out of a study done with engineers and accountants to find out what makes someone feel happy or unhappy about their profession. Herzberg identified five characteristics of work accomplishment, recognition, the job itself, responsibility, and advancement as "satisfiers" for workers. On the other end of the scale, Herzberg highlighted elements that may demoralize workers, including institutional politics, the management style, supervision, remuneration, relationships at work, and working conditions. According to Goshen, Kaswuri, Agashahi, and Ismail,organizations are increasingly using Herzberg's theory to give their staff opportunities for "personal growth, enrichment, and recognition." Employees should be given responsibility to decide how to handle tasks that are related to their jobs, as well as promotion after completing certain stages of their careers and recognition for special achievements, such as when they produce exceptional results in their subject areas. However, there has been some criticism of the Two-factor theory. Golshan et al. draw attention to the fact that it fails to make a distinction between psychological and physical aspects, to precisely define motivators and explain how they differ from hygiene factors, and that it also fails to express satisfaction and dissatisfaction levels as measures rather than using numerical values. Its presumption that everyone will react in the same way in a given circumstance is another criticism levelled at it[7], [8].

- 3. McGregor's X and Y Theories

Based on two sets of assumptions, McGregor’s Theory X and Theory Y models classify employees into one of two groups. The presumptions of Theory X adopt a pessimistic viewpoint on people: People may have an innate hate for labour and avoid it whenever possible; as a result, getting people to work often requires coercion, control, direction, and threats of punishment. They seek security, fear taking on responsibility, lack desire, and prefer to be directed. According to the assumptions of Theory Y, work-related mental and physical inputs are equivalent to those of rest or play. Threats from the outside or other external variables may not be the only motivators for making an effort. Workers or people can be cautious and disciplined to attain goals, but how eagerly they are to commit to goals depends on the size of the benefits associated with that kind of success. People can learn to seek responsibility rather than just accept it in normal circumstances. Applying these presumptions to a school setting, one might contend that dealing with problematic students and strict management for instance, a principal who is coercive and does not recognize the efforts of teachers, or an overly directive principal who never delegated or permitted teachers to make independent decisions are two of the major causes of teacher dissatisfaction. On the other hand, instructors may find job satisfaction with a supportive administrator.
