# Linkage Studies

Other researchers have measured employee engagement at the organizational level and connected it to business outcomes. When investigators collect data at the business unit or company level, these efforts are called “linkage studies.” The best examples of original research in this area are the studies by Gallup and Towers Perrin. The Gallup organization has provided perhaps the most convincing evidence of the link between engagement and company financial profits based on the number of studies conducted, the large sample sizes in the studies, and advanced methodologies that enabled them to use data from company records and archival databases. A meta-analysis of dozens of different Gallup studies compared results from business units within large companies and also compared companies with other companies.14 The findings showed that having a work environment that promoted positive employee engagement was consistently associated with beneficial business outcomes, including reduced employee turnover, greater customer satisfaction, employee productivity, and company profits.

Towers Perrin used its large database of worldwide clients to explore the link between company-level engagement and business success at mid- to large-size companies.21 In one study of 50 global organizations, the findings showed that high engagement companies (those with the highest average employee engagement scores), had higher 12-month change in net income (14% vs. - 4%, respectively) and higher 12-month growth in earnings per share of company stock (28% vs. - 11%) than low-engagement companies (those with the lowest average employee engagement scores). Another study of 40 global organizations showed that high engagement companies had a higher net profit margin (2.1% vs. -1.4%, respectively) than low-engagement companies.21