data/clean/microsoft_word_final_engagement_doc__chunk0013.md, before:

# Communication is Key to Engagement

Many of the studies reviewed indicate that effective communication between management and employees creates greater employee

(cid:82)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:101)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:99)(cid:104)(cid:32)(cid:87)(cid:111)(cid:114)(cid:107)(cid:115)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:74)(cid:117)(cid:110)(cid:101)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)

(cid:32)

engagement, and that communication is a leading indicator of organizational financial performance. For example, a 2006 survey of British employees found that allowing workers the opportunity to share their views and opinions with management was the single most important driver of engagement and that when management keeps employees informed about what is going on in the organization it builds more employee engagement.22

Watson Wyatt Worldwide also conducted a series of in-depth studies to explore the link between the nature of management communication practices at companies, employee engagement, and the future financial performance of the business. A key finding was that companies that communicated effectively with their employees were four times more likely to have high levels of employee engagement than firms that communicated less effectively.23 Thus, greater employee engagement was associated with better corporate communication practices. In one study, the group of companies with the most effective employee communication programs (based on use of nine kinds of communication practices) had a 91 percent total return to shareholders from 2002 to 2006, compared with only a 62 percent return for the comparison group of firms that had communicated least effectively.23 Moreover, a significant improvement in communication effectiveness over time (increased use of more of the nine practices) was associated with a 16 percent increase over time in market value of the company.

The results of Mercer’s 2002 People at Work Survey provide some insights into why better communication by management is related to employee engagement and company financial success.24 The survey queried over 2,500 U.S. workers and found that the effectiveness of senior management in communicating with employees related to levels of employee satisfaction, job commitment, and loyalty to the organization. When senior management communicated a clear vision for the future direction of the organization, fewer employees were dissatisfied with the organization compared to when senior management did not communicate its vision effectively, (7% vs. 39%, respectively); fewer employees said that they did not feel a strong sense of commitment to the organization (6% vs. 32%); and fewer employees said that they were

(cid:32)

(cid:53)(cid:32)

seriously thinking about leaving the organization (16% vs. 40%). Thus, better communication from company executives was associated with better engagement from employees.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/microsoft_word_final_engagement_doc__chunk0013.md, after:

---
source_path: microsoft_word_final_engagement_doc.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6700b2e9fa93195eb28e95b8d7f27261a4c077e4
title: microsoft_word_final_engagement_doc
---
# Linkage Studies

Other researchers have measured employee engagement at the organizational level and connected it to business outcomes. When investigators collect data at the business unit or company level, these efforts are called “linkage studies.” The best examples of original research in this area are the studies by Gallup and Towers Perrin. The Gallup organization has provided perhaps the most convincing evidence of the link between engagement and company financial profits based on the number of studies conducted, the large sample sizes in the studies, and advanced methodologies that enabled them to use data from company records and archival databases. A meta-analysis of dozens of different Gallup studies compared results from business units within large companies and also compared companies with other companies.14 The findings showed that having a work environment that promoted positive employee engagement was consistently associated with beneficial business outcomes, including reduced employee turnover, greater customer satisfaction, employee productivity, and company profits.

Towers Perrin used its large database of worldwide clients to explore the link between company-level engagement and business success at mid- to large-size companies.21 In one study of 50 global organizations, the findings showed that high engagement companies (those with the highest average employee engagement scores), had higher 12-month change in net income (14% vs. - 4%, respectively) and higher 12-month growth in earnings per share of company stock (28% vs. - 11%) than low-engagement companies (those with the lowest average employee engagement scores). Another study of 40 global organizations showed that high engagement companies had a higher net profit margin (2.1% vs. -1.4%, respectively) than low-engagement companies.21
