data/clean/microsoft_word_final_engagement_doc__chunk0008.md, before:

# International Differences in Engagement

As more companies have a global workforce, it is of general interest to explore possible differences in engagement between countries. Many of the early studies of employee engagement conducted by consulting companies were done in the United States. Studies using the UWES measure have been done in different countries and the results have found some differences between the primarily European countries, with engagement being highest among employees from Finland and France and lowest in Canada.12 In 2005, Towers Perrin published the findings from a survey of 85,000 employees from around the world.17 The detailed findings revealed a wide range in engagement levels between countries: Mexico (40%) and Brazil (31%) had the highest percentage of their workforce who were highly engaged, followed by the United States (21%) and Canada (17%), with Europe (11%) and Asia (7%) having the lowest levels of employee engagement. A 2007 Towers Perrin study with data from over 88,000 employees in 18 countries also found wide variability in engagement levels between countries.19 These studies indicate that there are some differences in work engagement between countries and cultures that merit further analysis and exploration. However, due to the differences in occupational groups in the different samples and many other factors involved, the interpretation of differences between countries in engagement scores is difficult.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/microsoft_word_final_engagement_doc__chunk0008.md, after:

---
source_path: microsoft_word_final_engagement_doc.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4291f01a8eb6e43ffed8ba3b81d6fa2aea0b54ce
title: microsoft_word_final_engagement_doc
---
# Individual Differences in Engagement

Are there certain personal characteristics of employees that are associated with their level of work engagement? There is not yet a clear answer to this question. However, a few studies do offer some preliminary findings on individual differences in work engagement. For demographic factors, engagement tends to be slightly higher among older workers and slightly higher for men, but these differences are small.12 One study examined the associations between work engagement and employee self-reports of perceived health, psychological well-being, and social relationships.9 Not surprisingly, it found higher engagement among employees who defined themselves as having better psychological well-being, better physical health and stronger social relationships. Lower engagement is more common among employees who report working too much and too many hours (i.e., workaholism) and also is more common among those who report they experience psychological hopelessness and despair concerning their work (i.e., job burnout).9,12 A study of over 10,000 employees in the U.K. found that greater engagement was associated with higher job grade (managers and executives), professional

(cid:32)

(cid:51)(cid:32)

training (highly educated and highly skilled workers), low job tenure (shorter length of service at the same organization); and absence of traumatic experiences at work (i.e., not having had an accident, injury, or harassment on the job).20
