# VII. References

[1] Sullivan, S. (2004). Making the business case for health and productivity management. Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, 46(6), S56-S61. [2] BlessingWhite. (2008). The state of employment engagement – 2008: North American overview. Princeton, NJ: Author. Accessed online on March 1, 2009 from www.blessingwhite.com/EEE__report.asp [3] The Conference Board. (2005). U.S. job satisfaction keeps falling, The Conference Board reports today. Press Release on February 28, 2005. New York City, NY: Author. [4] Wah, L. (1999). Engaging employees a big challenge. Management Review, 88(9), 10. [5] Macey, W. & Schneider, B. (2008). The meaning of employee engagement. Industrial and Organizational Psychology: Perspectives on Science and Practice, 1(1), 3-30. [6] Randstad. (2008). 2008 world of work. Atlanta, GA: Author. Accessed online on March 1, 2009 from www.us.randstad.com/2008WorldofWork.pdf [7] Bardwick, J. M. (2007). The psychological recession: Why your people don’t seem all that excited about coming to work these days. New York: The Conference Board. Accessed online on March 1, 2009 from www.conference- board.org/articles/atb_article.cfm?id=444 [8] Nelson, D. L., & Simmons, B. L. (2003). Health psychology and work stress: A more positive approach. In J. C. Quick & L. E. Tetrick, (Eds.), Handbook of occupational health psychology (pp. 97-119). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. [9] Schaufeli, W. B., Taris, T. W., & Van Rhenen, W. (2008). Workaholism, burnout and engagement: Three of a kind or three different kinds of employee well-being? Applied Psychology: An International Review, 57(2), 173-203. [10] Kahn, W. A. (1990). Psychological conditions of personal engagement and disengagement at work. Academy of Management Journal, 33, 692–724. [11] May, D. R., Gilson, R. L., & Harter, L. M. (2004). The psychological conditions of meaningfulness, safety and availability and the engagement of the human spirit at work. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 77, 11–37.

(cid:82)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:101)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:99)(cid:104)(cid:32)(cid:87)(cid:111)(cid:114)(cid:107)(cid:115)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:74)(cid:117)(cid:110)(cid:101)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)

(cid:32)

[12] Schaufeli, W. B., Bakker, A. B., & Salanova, M. (2006). The measurement of work engagement of with a short questionnaire: A cross-national study. Educational and Psychological Measurement, 66(4), 701-716. [13] Buckingham, M. (1999). First, break all the rules. New York: Simon & Schuster. [14] Harter, J. K., Schmidt, F. L., & Keyes, C. L. M. (2003). Well-being in the workplace and its relationship to business outcomes: A review of the Gallup studies. In C. Keyes & J. Haidt (Eds.), Flourishing: Positive psychology and the life well- lived (pp. 205-224). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. [15] Wagner, R., & Harter, J. K. (2006). 12: The elements of great managing. New York, NY: Gallup Press. [16] Towers Perrin. (2003). The 2003 Towers Perrin talent report: U.S. report. Understanding what drives employee engagement. Stamford, CT: Author. Accessed online on March 1, 2009 from www.towersperrin.com/gws [17] Towers Perrin. (2005). Winning strategies for a global workforce: Attracting, retaining and engaging employees for a competitive advantage. Stamford, CT: Author. Accessed online on March 1, 2009 from www.towersperrin.com/gws [18] Corporate Leadership Council. (2004). Corporate Leadership Council employee engagement survey 2004. Washington, DC: Author. [19] Towers Perrin. (2008). 2007-2008 Towers Perrin global engagement workforce study. Stamford, CT: Author. Accessed online on March 1, 2009 from www.towersperrin.com/gws [20] Robinson, D., Perryman, S. & Hayday, S. (2004). The drivers of employee engagement: IES report 408. London: Institute for Employment Studies. [21] Towers Perrin. (2008). Employee engagement underpins business transformation. Stamford, CT: Author. Accessed online on March 1, 2009 from www.towersperrin.com/tp/getwebcachedoc?c ountry=gbr&webc=GBR/2008/200807/TP_ISR_July 08.pdf

(cid:32)

(cid:49)(cid:49)(cid:32)

[22] Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development. (2006). How engaged are British employees? Annual survey report. London: Author. Accessed online on March 1, 2009 from www.cipd.co.uk/subjects/empreltns/general/_h wngdbremp.htm?IsSrchRes=1 [23] Watson Wyatt Worldwide. (2007). Secrets of top performers: How companies with highly effective employee communication differentiate themselves: 2007/2008 communication ROI study. Washington DC: Author. [24] Mercer. (2002). Mercer people at work survey 2002. New York, NY: Author. [25] Gallup Organization cited in ColeySmith, H. (2006). Employee engagement: Useful facts and figures. Suffolk, U.K.: ColeySmith Consulting. Accessed online on March 1, 2009 from www.coleysmithconsulting.com/documents/Eng agement%20Facts%20and%20figures.pdf [26] Corporate Leadership Council. (2002). Performance management survey study: Building the high-performance workforce. Washington, DC: Author. [27] Fox, A. (2008). The power of positive thinking in the workplace. Society of Human Resources Management (SHRM) Member Newsletter. Arlington, VA: SHRM. [28] Goleman, D. (1998). Working with emotional intelligence. New York: Bantam Books. [29] Kahn, J. P. & Langlieb, A. M. (Eds.). (2003). Mental health and productivity in the workplace: A handbook for organizations and clinicians. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. [30] Richard, M. A., Emener, W. G., & Hutchison, W. S. Jr. (Eds.). (2009). Employee assistance programs: Wellness/enhancement programming, 4th Edition. Springfield, IL: Charles C Thomas. [31] Macik-Frey, M., Quick, J. C. & Nelson, D. L. (2007). Advances in occupational health: From a stressful beginning to a positive future. Journal of Management, 33(2), 189-205. [32] Quick, J. C., & Tetrick, L. E. (Eds.). (2003). Handbook of occupational health psychology. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. [33] Kristof, A. (1996). Person-organization fit: An integrative review of its conceptualization, measurements, and implications. Personnel Psychology, 49, 1-49. [34] Jansen, K., & Kristof-Brown, A. (2006). Toward a multidimensional theory of person-

(cid:82)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:101)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:99)(cid:104)(cid:32)(cid:87)(cid:111)(cid:114)(cid:107)(cid:115)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:74)(cid:117)(cid:110)(cid:101)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)

(cid:32)

environment fit. Journal of Managerial Issues, 37(1), 193-212. [35] Van der Doef, M., & Maes, S. (1999). The job demand-control (support) model and psychological well-being: A review of 20 years of empirical research. Work and Stress, 13 (2), 87-114. [36] Rhoades, L., & Eisenberger, R. (2002). Perceived organizational support: A review of the literature. Journal of Applied Psychology, 87, 698-714. [37] Bakker, A. B., Hakanen, J. J., Demerouti, E., & Xanthopoulou, D. (2007). Job resources boost engagement, particularly when job demands are high. Journal of Educational Psychology, 99(2), 274-284. [38] Xanthopoulou, D., Bakker, A. B., Demerouti, E., & Schaufeli, W. B. (2007). The role of personal resources in the job demands-resources model. International Journal of Stress Management, 14(2), 121-141. [39] Peterson, M., & Wilson, J. F. (2002). The culture-work-health model and work stress. American Journal of Health Behavior, 26, 16-24. [40] Grawitch, M. J., Gottschalk, M., & Munz, D. C. (2006). The path to a healthy workplace: A critical review linking healthy workplace practices, employee well-being, and organizational improvements. Consulting Psychology Journal: Practice and Research, 58(3), 129-147. [41] Gatenby, M., Rees, C., Soane, E., & Truss, C. (2008). Employee engagement in context: Research insight. London: Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development. [42] Andel, M., & Davenport, T. (2006, October). The theory and practice of employee engagement: California State Automobile Association. Presentation at SHRM Conference on Engagement. Arlington, VA: Society for Human Resource Management. [43] Vance, R. J. (2006). Employee engagement and commitment: A guide to understanding, measuring and increasing engagement in your organization. A SHRM Foundation White Paper. Arlington, VA: Society for Human Resource Management Foundation. [44] Attridge, M. (2009, February 27). Personal communications with Andrew Gold, Pitney Bowes.

(cid:32)

(cid:49)(cid:50)(cid:32)