---
source_path: microsoft_word_21523873_file000000_468158165_docx.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 66bf4ffd58ce32187936acf57259cb4c39759d71
title: microsoft_word_21523873_file000000_468158165_docx
---
## least one year’s management experience (O'Leary, 2004).

There were 15 research participants who were international and national MBA and EMBA students.

Their ages ranged between 23 and 55 years. There were 5 females and 10 males who participated in

the research. The participants came from a variety of industries and they had between 1 year and 30

years management experience. Snowball sampling was used in the recruitment of the research

participants (O'Leary, 2004). An invitation email was sent out to all MBA and EMBA students from

an administrator in the School of Business. Once interviewed, the participants were also asked to

suggest other students who would be appropriate and interested in participating in the project.

Semi(cid:47)structured interviews were used in the data collection as they were considered to be the most

appropriate method for research, allowing the research participants to reflect more freely on their

experiences and to describe their experience of having difficult conversations in the workplace.

8

The interviews were face to face, in depth for approximately 30 – 60 minutes. The interviews were

digitally audio(cid:47) recorded with the participant’s written consent. Prior to the interview the participants

were aware of the research topic, although not given the interview questions. Thematic analysis was

used to analyse the data for recurring themes which were constantly compared and contrasted to

determine the experiences of the participants having difficult conversations in the workplace (Boeije,

2010).

(cid:39)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:37)(cid:40)(cid:9)(cid:1)(cid:17)(cid:21)(cid:9)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:40)(cid:23)(cid:22)(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:16)(cid:20)(cid:17)(cid:40)(cid:9)

The inductive themes from the data were culture, gender and emotions. For the purpose of this paper,

we will focus on the theme of emotion however we acknowledge that culture and gender also play a

part in the emotion individual’s experience as a result of a conversation. The research participants

described their experience of engaging in difficult conversations through using evocative metaphors

such as “(cid:29)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:15)(cid:4)(cid:16)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:9)(cid:5)(cid:14)(cid:8)(cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:7)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:14)” and “(cid:1)(cid:15)(cid:10)(cid:4)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:24)(cid:8)(cid:15)(cid:13)(cid:9)(cid:5)(cid:10)(cid:25)(cid:8)(cid:15)(cid:8)(cid:21)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:12)(cid:3)(cid:2)(cid:12)(cid:6)(cid:25)” demonstrating what they believed to

be the precariousness nature of these conversations.

The participants of the study often expressed feeling a range of emotions before instigating a difficult

conversation. For the purpose of this paper we define emotion as a strong feeling that emerges from

an interaction (Stryker, 2004). Some participants said they felt emotions such as being (cid:40)(cid:15)(cid:10)(cid:30)(cid:2)(cid:9)(cid:5)(cid:14)(cid:23)(cid:8)

(cid:24)(cid:5)(cid:2)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:8)(cid:10)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:11)(cid:9)(cid:5)(cid:14)(cid:8)(cid:15)(cid:10)(cid:25)(cid:8)(cid:12)(cid:21)(cid:9)(cid:7)(cid:2)(cid:9)(cid:10)(cid:15)(cid:6)”. Others stated they could feel their emotion play out in a physical

sense, such as “(cid:24)(cid:5)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:17)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:10)(cid:4)(cid:16)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:24)(cid:41), suggesting that engaging in a difficult conversation has both

emotional and physical responses. These emotions expressed by the participants were often for

different reasons as discussed below.

Some participants showed concern for those they were intending to have the conversation with. John

said “(cid:42)(cid:26)(cid:8)(cid:16)(cid:12)(cid:8)(cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:14)(cid:8)(cid:43)(cid:5)(cid:2)(cid:7)(cid:12)(cid:8)(cid:5)(cid:19)(cid:14)(cid:12)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:15)(cid:10)(cid:25)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:14)(cid:8)(cid:12)(cid:21)(cid:9)(cid:7)(cid:2)(cid:9)(cid:10)(cid:15)(cid:6)(cid:42)(cid:42)” , while Jennifer said (cid:40)(cid:42)(cid:26)(cid:26)(cid:7)(cid:16)(cid:12)(cid:8)(cid:7)(cid:16)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:24)(cid:8)(cid:34)(cid:8)(cid:15)(cid:21)(cid:8)

(cid:14)(cid:4)(cid:15)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:25)(cid:8)(cid:15)(cid:22)(cid:9)(cid:5)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:21)(cid:9)(cid:14)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:14)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:12)(cid:10)(cid:25)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:24)(cid:8)(cid:19)(cid:12)(cid:9)(cid:19)(cid:6)(cid:12)(cid:42)(cid:44) and David stated, “(cid:34)(cid:7)(cid:28)(cid:14)(cid:8)(cid:7)(cid:16)(cid:12)(cid:8)(cid:3)(cid:12)(cid:15)(cid:13)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:3)(cid:8)(cid:16)(cid:5)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:24)(cid:8)(cid:19)(cid:12)(cid:9)(cid:19)(cid:6)(cid:12)”. These

responses suggest that what makes a conversation difficult is the emotion felt by the instigator of the

conversation as a result of their concern for either perceiving or feeling the emotion of the other

person in the conversation. These responses resonate with the healthcare literature where clinician’s

9

often feel concern for their patient’s emotional ability to adjust to receiving bad news (Fallowfield &

Jenkins, 2004). Likewise, these managers are showing concern for their employee’s wellbeing and

possibly the affect the conversation may have on their future relationship with that individual.

Fostering a trustful relationship with employees is an important part of a manager’s role that requires

time and rapport building that may be affected when individuals engage in difficult conversations in
