---
source_path: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 85603d24725baf0885008835af41bbd25d722c78
title: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer
---
# A Textbook of Industrial Psychology

managers should give their staff feedback on their performance reviews. Employee autonomy and freedom served as a motivating factor, and defining goals helped the workers stay on task. When compared to the beginning, the company's staff productivity was strong. The report advised organisations to have clearly defined protocols to follow when handling employee input and responding to feedback from the environment around the organisation.

The level of staff evaluation and appraisal in a company affects productivity as well as overall production. Productivity is defined as the quantity or quality of the main products (goods and services) delivered by an organisation over a specific time period.The final product of a production process in an organisation is productivity. The success of an organisation as a whole is ultimately determined by the managers' ability to inspire workers at all levels to increase their levels of productivity. Employee productivity gauges how much each employee in an organisation contributes on an individual basis.Employee productivity is one factor considered when assessing an organization's human capital, claims Dzinkowski.

Performance leadership was shown to depend heavily on performance appraisal, which was noted as a vital component of contemporary human resourcepractises. Performance evaluations are based on elements such as employee motivation, job performance, intrinsic rewards, external advantages, worker performance, worker training and development, internal correspondence, as well as workplace and hierarchical responsibility. In the social insurance business, organisational performance management centres on human resource management. Contrarily, medical service facilities feature a dual hierarchical structure consisting of clinical administrators and wellness managers that oversee two distinct teams of staff with distinct roles and education requirements. The aim of the medical services sector is to give the patient the best possible care and treatment.

The employee performance exam is a crucial tool for both administrator and employee career advancement. While the employee gains a better awareness of what is typical in their daily tasks, the administrator can help control how the company advances. According to Stonner, Freeman, and Gilbert's analysis of how performance appraisals affect performance in the United States, the primary objective of performance evaluations is to increase employee productivity, which in turn encourages an improvement in an organization's overall performance. Appropriate notice, fair listening (two-way communication), and evidence-based assessment (reporting performance issues using verifiable evidence) are three characteristics that contribute to the viability of a successful evaluation system.

Various effects of performance reviews on employees must be differentiated by administrators. For instance, Scott and Einstein's examination into the assessor-appraisee connection from the perspective of instructors revealed that the combination of the two made a significant difference to the educator's perception of the purpose and appropriateness of the exam[1], [2].Additionally, in Kenya, performance reviews are essential for advancing your career. Armstrong dentified three elements as being very crucial in determining whether an employee is active in the process to help achieve examination objectives.

These include the extent to which the employee considers the evaluation to be reasonable, the nature of their current relationship with the person or individuals performing the assessment, and the implications of the assessment for their personal well-being and workers' compensation. As a result, evaluation is both a very "social method" and yet has a "specialised element" in terms of how performance is judged. A performance examination structure is a key element in the motivation of employees, according to Mintzberg's investigation on the impact of performance
