data/clean/microsoft_word_jole_8_2_fall_2009_doc__chunk0010.md, before:

## Journal of Leadership Education Volume 8, Issue 2 – Fall 2009

Participants’ behaviors and outcomes of their participation in each of the simulations were recorded either on videotape or in written format. DDI evaluated the results. Each participant’s exercises and simulations are rated by multiple (typically three) assessors. DDI assessors are given extensive training to differentiate participants’ behaviors related to competencies being measured. DDI provides assessors with behavioral examples to guide their judgment of participants’ performance on each dimension (DDI, 2001). After each assessor assigns a rating on each dimension for each participant, assessors share their observations and agree on a single score for each dimension. Specific written feedback was returned to the participants, including numeric scores (1 = low to 5 = high) on each of the dimensions. A university career counselor then debriefed each student, explaining the DDI feedback and suggesting courses and activities that might result in skill improvement.

Sports Team Participation. Each assessment center participant completed a survey requesting the number of seasons played in each of 24 sports on a formal school-sponsored team at either the high school or college level. We based the list of sports on those offered by a university identified by the NCAA as having the widest variety of varsity teams. In addition, we added that university’s “club” sports to the list and an open-ended question was available for participants to amend the list.

Although participation in the assessment center exercises was not voluntary for students in this MBA program, participating in the survey of sports team participation was. No student refused to complete the survey.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/microsoft_word_jole_8_2_fall_2009_doc__chunk0010.md, after:

---
source_path: microsoft_word_jole_8_2_fall_2009_doc.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 68a0d92b6835c1e3575da291831658f2e3b2298e
title: microsoft_word_jole_8_2_fall_2009_doc
---
# Measures

Leadership Skills. The assessment center was a pre-requisite exercise for enrollment in a required management skills course. The assessment center method, which offers a direct assessment of the behaviors, motivations, and knowledge needed for a target position, involves multiple evaluation techniques, including various types of job-related simulations and psychological tests. The American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) commissioned Development Dimensions International (DDI) in the late 1980s to develop an assessment center as a means of measuring learning outcomes measurement in business schools (AACSB, 1989).

The Assessment Center exercises used in this study are those developed by DDI. They included the following simulations: • • • • •

An in-basket exercise. Group discussions. Simulated performance interview with a “subordinate.” Oral presentation exercise. Written communication exercise.

The validity of using the assessment center method in both industrial and academic settings has been established. The standardized administration and scoring inherent in the assessment center method helps to insure the reliability and validity of the data that are produced (Gaugler, Rosenthal, Thornton, & Bentson (1987)). Riggio, Mayes, and Schleicher (2003) and Waldman and Kobar (2004) established the criterion-related validation for the use of assessment centers in academic settings. They were able to establish significant correlations between assessment center performance and post-graduate supervisory ratings (Riggio, et al., 2003) as well as subsequent job satisfaction, number of promotions, and salary (Waldman and Kobar, 2004).

One advantage of using assessment center methods is that it allows for the measurement of a multidimensional array of skills associated with the leadership construct. Nine independent factors (dimensions) were measured in the current study, including (a) planning, (b) analysis, (c) judgment, (d) delegation, (e) maximizing performance, (f) individual Leadership, (g) teamwork, (h) communication, and (h) written communication. Definitions of each of these skills are listed in Appendix A.

227

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:106)(cid:111)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:56)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:50)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:49)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:54)(cid:53)(cid:57)(cid:56)(cid:53)(cid:47)(cid:118)(cid:56)(cid:95)(cid:105)(cid:50)(cid:95)(cid:114)(cid:102)(cid:55)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)
