---
source_path: microsoft_word_9_herzberg_s_motivation_theory_in_workplace.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 83b49bb5ccc96d9030a8d89b079b39b82bba056d
title: microsoft_word_9_herzberg_s_motivation_theory_in_workplace
---
# Methods and Results

In this review we found some studies about how the theory of Herzberg’s affects the work life and we will present the most interesting for us below. We will refer some relevant researches that prove this theory. At the research of Emrah Ozsou (Sakarya University March, 2009) the data were collected with the participation of the employees of the municipalities operating in Sakarya (Turkey). A questionnaire form which was designed to test the Herzberg’s Two-Factor Theory was distributed to each participant (paper-pencil). After eliminating incomplete and sloppy questionnaire forms, 162 valid questionnaires were obtained. The motivation factors of Herzberg’s two-factor motivation theory (i.e., achievement, recognition, work, responsibility, advancement, and growth) and hygiene factors (hygiene factors, i.e., company policy and administration, supervision, relationship with supervisor working conditions, salary, relationship with peers, personal relationship, relationship with subordinates, status, and security) were measured with the method inspired by Lundberg et al. (2009). To do that, all the factors (totally 16: 6 for motivation factors and 10 for hygiene factors) were measured with a five-point Likert scale format (ranging from 1—not at all important to 5—very important). For the rest of the factors, the same approach was adopted. In addition, the participants were asked to distribute 100 points to 16 factors consisted of Herzberg’s Theory and to indicate what per cent each factor was effective in their motivation. According to the findings of the study, the basic assumptions related to Herzberg’s Two-Factor theory were partially supported in the sample of Turkish public sector employees (white-collar employees working in municipalities). Some of the factors considered as hygiene factors in Herzberg’s theory were found to be important motivating factors. According to Herzberg’s theory factors such as salary, working conditions, company policy and administration, and relationship with supervisor were considered as hygiene factors. However, in the current study, they all were found to be significant motivators. In a different research by Sabir Ansari (October 2020) who designed a test for employee motivation in three selected Nepalese organizations based on Herzberg’s motivation-hygiene theory. A questionnaire was developed to obtain data from the respondents of selected organization in Nepal. The sample consisted of 150 employees, made up of 50 respondents for each organization. 150 (100%) respondents completed the questionnaire. The respondents were asked to rank all the 16 factors mentioned by Herzberg, by presence of which cause them job satisfaction. Each respondent was also asked to describe their demographic data including sex, age, marital status, age-group, job position, length of employment at present organization, strength of feeling about their current working environment. The findings of this study indicate that the respondents considered Salary to be the most influencing factor, presence of which provides a sense of job satisfaction for Nepalese employees. The finding also shows that the ranking of the motivational factors by the Nepalese employees is different from that of Herzberg. Thus, the finding contradicts the Herzberg’s Theory because Herzberg mentioned Salary to be a hygiene factor, which means, and the absence of it causes job dissatisfaction but presence of it will not cause job satisfaction. However, the other top motivating factors remain constant. The top six motivational factors causing job satisfaction of Nepalese employees are Achievement, Recognition, Responsibility, Salary, and Advancement indicating that

975

976
