---
source_path: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: cc8d2a04ffd5c285451d0b34301d3233013202bb
title: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer
---
# Personal or team interview

The supervisor may have been the only person to interview a candidate in the past, but it's becoming more common to use an interview team made up of people who will work with the new hire in different sections of the organisation.The advantage of this strategy is that numerous interviewers represent a wider range of interests, and after the interviews are over, multiple people can decide who will be chosen. Since individuals who were involved in the hiring process are typically in favour of the decision, this may also aid in the new hire's quicker integration into the team. The drawback of team interviews is purely practical. Finding a time and location for the interview amid everyone's hectic schedules becomes more challenging the larger the team. Additionally, compared to a one-on-one interview, candidates are likely to find a panel interview to be more stressful.After you've made your choice, you must check the references provided by the candidate and confirm the data they've given you. Every year, millions of applicants are subjected to background and reference checks, and sadly, a lot of the information on their application forms and resumes is false. ADP Screening and Selection Services claims that over 40% of applicants fabricate information regarding their employment history and educational backgrounds, and about 20% do the same with their credentials and licences. According to estimates, 30% of job seekers across the country materially mislead themselves on their resumes.

According to a different survey, 95% of college students indicated they would lie to gain a job and 41% admitted to have actually done so. According to a survey of senior executives, 15% of them acknowledged to lying on their resumes. Despite how challenging it may be, you must obtain reliable information about your potential new hire. Unfortunately, former employers are becoming less willing to provide references, largely because they worry about being sued for defamation by enraged former employees.Society for Human Resource Management, 12 (2008). Myrna Gusdorf, an SPHR employee with an MBA. As a result, many firms severely restrict the data they make available about former workers. Employers cannot win in this situation since they risk being sued either way. However, if the company withholds information concerning a former employee's volatility, it raises its susceptibility to a lawsuit based on negligence. Withholding unfavourable information about former employees may offer protection for the employer against a defamation action.
