---
source_path: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e02dc1c03542c1c636cdeae8f5b8e147b6a86c58
title: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer
---
# A Textbook of Industrial Psychology

Questioning applicants

Selection testing will reduce the number of individuals in your recruitment pool, but you'll probably need to cut down the list even more to find a manageable quantity for interviews.How many candidates you pick to interview will depend on the requirements of the position and how much time you have to devote to it. Three or four interviews may be sufficient, but more interviews may be necessary if you want to obtain a good sense of the candidates' qualifications.

In essence, the interview is a verbal test for the applicant. However, unlike a test using paper and pencil, there is frequently no obvious right or wrong response. Depending on the questions asked, the responses given, and the interviewer's own bias, the results are open to the interviewer's interpretation and hence have a very high potential for inaccuracy. Consider carefully what details you want to learn about the applicant during the interview. Asking questions that will just provide you with information that is already on the application is a waste of time. Find out during the interview how the candidate will act when working there. The key to conducting effective interviews is to have a solid understanding of the job criteria. The essential work competencies must therefore be identified in a thorough and precise job description. These qualities serve as the benchmarks against which each applicant is evaluated and serve as the foundation for the interview questions you construct.

The situational/problem-solving interview, the nondirective interview, and the structured or patterned interview are the most often utilised interview styles. When conducting a structured or patterned interview, all candidates are subjected to the same set of questions. This permits consistency in the procedure, ensuring that crucial inquiries are covered, and helps ensure that all applicants will be judged in accordance with the same standards. Despite the fact that consistency is ideal, the interview shouldn't be so rigorous that interviewers aren't permitted to ask follow-up questions based on the candidates' responses; you don't want to miss out on any crucial information that the candidate might provide in response to more questions.

Situational interviewing is characterised by inquiries like "what would you do in this situation," which let the applicant make assumptions about how he or she would approach a specific work issue. In a behavioural interview, the candidate is prompted to explain what they did in a specific circumstance. It is based on the idea that past behaviour can serve as a good indicator of future behaviour and calls for the candidate to provide concrete instances of past actions and outcomes. Behavioural inquiries typically have a higher likelihood of providing knowledge from real-world situations that may be useful in making a wise selection decision.

The interviewer asks as few questions as possible, and questions are not always prepared in advance. Open-ended inquiries, like "tell me about the work you do in your field," are used in this strategy to give the applicant the opportunity to speak. Myrna Gusdorf, MBA, SPHR 11 allows the candidate to lead the interviewer by expressing thoughts and sentiments that might be pertinent to the position. However, if the candidate discloses unsuitable or potentially discriminating information, it could cause issues. This technique can uncover facts that may never appear in a formal interview. Without a set structure, interviews can occasionally devolve into unstructured exchanges with the interviewer just interested in getting to know the candidate. Although this might be pleasant for social occasions, it has very little predictive power when it comes to the employment process. If you avoid the "casual conversation" trap and instead meticulously prepare for a structured interview that focuses on job-related facts, you'll have a more successful new hire.
