---
source_path: microsoft_word_performance_management_literature_review_doc.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2f37cbd20346991f43dced7a6e91705d9b4726b3
title: microsoft_word_performance_management_literature_review_doc
---
# (cid:34)(cid:39) (cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:11)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:7)(cid:12)(cid:2)(cid:6)(cid:2)(cid:8)(cid:13)(cid:35)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:15)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:7)(cid:13)(cid:16)(cid:3)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:17)(cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:15)(cid:2)(cid:19)(cid:10) (cid:10)

Some of the potential advantages of PRP are that it can provide a direct incentive, is a tangible means of recognising individuals’ achievements, and provides the flexibility to retain key staff. On the downside, critics of paying for performance in this way say that it can be discriminatory, demotivate the majority of employees at the expense of a few high performers, and undermine ‘felt fair’ perceptions of equity.

PRP is built on the premise that reward can foster the right behaviour and money is a potentially powerful incentive to influence the amount of effort that employees will exert on behalf of the organisation. Some theorists believe that money can act as a goal in itself and can be valued by employees as a symbol of external status and internal recognition. But others contend that early proponents of PRP failed to appreciate the complexity of the wider employment relationship and the extent to which financial reward can act as a long-term satisfier. ‘Needs’ theories such as those developed by Maslow and Herzberg place a great deal of emphasis on the intrinsic aspects of the job, and argue that people can gain the greatest satisfaction from work factors such as responsibility, achievement and recognition. Other critics of PRP caution that such pay schemes are coercive and can encourage the wrong type of behaviour, for example, by focusing on individual effort at the expense of teamworking.

Initially hailed as the solution to motivating staff and encouraging higher levels of productivity, PRP subsequently suffered a reaction a decade later when it became apparent that it may not live up to expectations. A number of research studies failed to demonstrate any causal link between merit pay and performance and productivity.’ But, say Brown and Armstrong (1999), performance-related pay is neither dead nor dying; the spread in incidence has undoubtedly slowed, but it is continuing to be applied and grow. Furthermore, the practical problems in implementation and operation are increasingly well recognised and documented.

Indeed, more up-to-date survey evidence shows that the premise on which IPRP is based – that is, rewarding people according to their level of performance – remains a fundamental principle of many organisations’ reward strategies. The CIPD (2010) annual reward survey indicates that, when it comes to pay progression, though the majority of employers use multiple factors in determining reward, is individual performance (68 per cent) is the most important and senior managers are more likely to be assessed solely on their performance than other employees.

Gratton (2000) finds that performance-related pay only works if individual or team-based pay is high enough to reward effort, and if the basis of allocation is clear, fair and accepted. She goes on to say that in practice the money is not enough to achieve this and the system is usually not clear enough.
