---
source_path: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 408acb1149b2dafcf2af864a39ee2c10c02a29fd
title: microsoft_word_ebch_1926_v3_sameer
---
# A Textbook of Industrial Psychology

Coaching: In coaching, the participants are placed under the supervision of a coach or instructor. He provides the people with job information and skills. There could be more or fewer learners participating in the coaching. The coach typically communicates with the students verbally and uses tools and equipment to transmit knowledge and information. When there are fewer students, he can give each one of them his undivided attention. On the other hand, if there are more students, the teacher can simply present the material; it is up to the students to pay attention and gain a deeper understanding.

Job Rotation: Job rotation is the methodical transition of people from one position to another and from one department to another. It enables people to acquire a variety of abilities and a wider perspective. The people can raise awareness of how duties and activities are carried out in other departments. It increases departmental cooperation and lessens workplace monotony. People feel motivated and are able to improve their skills and abilities.

Understudy: An understudy is a person who is undergoing training to eventually take full responsibility for the role that his or her superior is now holding. The individual is working to build the abilities and skills required for the position. The position for which he is preparing himself might become vacant as a result of a transfer, promotion, or retirement. The individuals who serve as understudies grow as decision-makers, operators, problem-solvers, and leaders[9], [10].

Case Study, Cases are written based on actual business circumstances that have occurred within organisations. The case is presented to the trainees in the case study approach, and they must investigate and analyse it. They are required to find the problems that are concealed and offer solutions. By enhancing their analytical and evaluating skills, the trainees are better able to make decisions. The incidents are produced using actual situations as their basis. In this instance, the trainees are expected to analyse the situation. In the position of the person who must deal with the occurrence in real life, they must offer answers to the issues. In this approach, the students are able to advance their cognitive skills, practical judgement, and social awareness.

Role-playing: In the role-playing approach, the students are expected to assume the roles of real people. The role-playing is structured around a scenario in which various people are present and must assume various roles. The people using this strategy either need to come up with solutions for various issues, make wise decisions, or learn from diverse experiences. The majority of the time, role playing helps people comprehend experiences, circumstances, and people in a better way. People typically enjoy it. In-basket Technique the trainees are provided with knowledge and information in this approach about the company, its goods, important employees, numerous memoranda, details, demands, and several other forms of information relevant to the company. The learners must provide accurate information regarding these elements. One needs to know how to assign roles, assign tasks, and produce memos within the allotted time.

The trainees are put into groups or teams for the business game. Each team must deliberate and decide on a variety of issues, including production, price, research, expenditure, and so on. In order to encourage more engagement among the participants and offer them experience with the cooperative group process, the team's cooperative decision is necessary. With this approach, you can improve your organisational skills, quick thinking, leadership skills, and ability to work under pressure.
