# (cid:27)(cid:8)(cid:28)(cid:13)(cid:15)(cid:13)(cid:16)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:10)(cid:29)(cid:6)(cid:30)(cid:23)(cid:5)(cid:24)(cid:6)(cid:2)(cid:8)(cid:13)(cid:10)(cid:31)(cid:13)(cid:16)(cid:32)(cid:15)(cid:2)(cid:28) (cid:33)(cid:44)(cid:10) (cid:10)

Cascio (1991, cited in Sillup et al, 2010) states that a performance appraisal system should ‘help managers groom their employees to accomplish objectives that will help the corporation gain competitive advantage’ (p.41) and Borman (1991, cited in Sillup, 2010) equally argues that an effective performance appraisal requires relevance; through which there are clear links between the tasks for a job and organisational objectives.

Murphy (2004) criticises that organisational goals for performance appraisal systems are not considered carefully enough and this results in systems attempting to achieve too much. Moreover, Murphy and Cleveland (1995) make the point that the organisational goals for the appraisal system need to be compatible with what the appraiser and appraisee want to get out of it. If not, they will not use it effectively. The implication here is that many of the organisational purposes of appraisal are not of great value to the manager or the employee, so their compliance will at best be half-hearted and they may well consciously distort the process to achieve their own desired ends.

Locke and Latham (1990) in a series of studies have shown strong evidence for the effectiveness of individual goal setting, although the majority of such work has not been done in the context of appraisal. They advocate the use of goals that are specific, moderately difficult, and accepted by the individual for whom they are set. The recurring theme here is about goals which the employee really agrees with, not goals which are imposed.

Alongside the importance of aligning employee’s efforts with company objectives is the need to clearly communicate the organisation’s expectation of its employees. The Corporate Leadership Council (2002) concluded that employee understanding of performance standards and objectives is more influential than specific features of the performance management system itself in driving performance.

The Acas Model Workplace also indicates that employees require clarity around expectations of them in terms of standards of performance and behaviour and they need consistency in the application of processes. Acas state that at an individual level appraisal systems are the ‘ideal way of clarifying objectives’ and that appraisals provide the opportunity for managers to check that employees understand what is expected of them (Acas, 2005, p.8). Finn (2007, cited in Wikina, 2008) also states that in designing a performance management system, expectations for employees need to be stated with clear, measurable performance goals.

(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:50) (cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:4)(cid:7)(cid:33)(cid:11)(cid:31)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:10)(cid:2)(cid:8)(cid:24)(cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:20)(cid:8)(cid:4)(cid:20)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:28)(cid:6)(cid:15)(cid:4)(cid:6)(cid:11)(cid:7)(cid:8)

A further key to the success of embedding effective performance appraisal appears to be its integration into the culture of the organisation; building a culture