---
source_path: microsoft_word_21523873_file000000_468158165_docx.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6ff2f22dc44f1521170fab6e3fb30b6dd6c5be79
title: microsoft_word_21523873_file000000_468158165_docx
---
# foster greater interpersonal understanding and positive relationships in the workplace.

(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:18)(cid:25)(cid:19)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:22)(cid:19)(cid:25)(cid:9)(cid:19)(cid:25)(cid:26)(cid:16)(cid:25)(cid:27)(cid:9)

(cid:28)(cid:11)(cid:6)(cid:29)(cid:4)(cid:30)(cid:7)(cid:6)(cid:5)(cid:11)(cid:9)(cid:24)(cid:31)(cid:4)(cid:11)(cid:5)(cid:6)(cid:4)(cid:32)(cid:5)(cid:11)(cid:9)

Given the potentially sensitive context of difficult conversations in clinical settings it is no surprise

that emotion is a recurring theme in the healthcare literature on this topic. For example Fallowfield

and Jenkins (2004) argue that defining what constitutes ‘bad news’ is subjective and depends on how

emotionally robust a patient is in their ability to adjust to the bad news they receive. These

researchers further point out that the emotional health of the patient depends on the receiver’s life

experiences, personality, spiritual beliefs, philosophical views, perceived social support and also their

‘emotional hardiness’ (Fallowfield & Jenkins, 2004, p. 312). Also focussing on the receiver of bad

news Warnock et al. (2010) contend that what makes breaking bad news to patients difficult is the

clinician’s (doctor or nurse) concern about upsetting the patient.

Conversely, emotion in relation to those who deliver bad news has also been highlighted in the

healthcare literature. For example Warnock et al. (2010) draw attention to the possibility that

clinicians may have fears about not coping with their own emotions. Indeed, feelings of anxiety or

sadness may influence how clinicians deliver the bad news to their patients as well as how they feel

afterwards. From a different perspective Shaw, Dunn, and Heinrich (2012) note the tendency of

clinicians to protect their emotions as a way of distancing themselves from the bad news and the

patients, a practice that often results in the perception of the patient that the clinician is emotionally

3

withdrawn from the interaction. Taking the potential impact of bad news on the clinician into account,

Lamiani et al. (2012) notes the need for clinicians to recognise, foster and cultivate their own

mindfulness and internal awareness when having difficult conversations with their patients.

Another recurring theme in the healthcare literature is the effect of the communication style of those

who deliver bad news to patients. Early researchers on difficult conversations in the healthcare

context Girgis and Sanson(cid:47)Fisher (1995) found that when doctors used what they described as a

‘patient(cid:47)centred communication style’, patients felt that they had a more positive health outcome. This

style of communication highlights the importance to acknowledge the needs of the patient, as doctors

break bad news. For example, it is suggested that doctors need to check for the patient’s

understanding of the information given to them and show the patient empathy. Girgis and Sanson(cid:47)

Fisher (1995) note that in their study the patient’s perception of their bad news was influenced on

three levels: cognitive (when detailed information was given), evaluative (when more hope was

expressed ) and emotional (when there was lower tension and anger experienced). It seems the

communication style that doctors use when they break bad news not only affects what the patient

hears but also how they feel about what they have heard.

Acknowledging the central role of good communication in exchanges that take place in clinical

settings some works highlight the need for communication skills training aimed at clinicians (Girgis

& Sanson(cid:47)Fisher, 1995; Lamiani et al., 2012). Enhancing the clinician’s ability to communicate

effectively with patients through appropriate communication skills has been demonstrated to also

have positive effects on the clinician’s ability to recognise their (cid:9)(cid:17)(cid:10) emotional responses when

breaking bad news. For example, Lamiani et al. (2012) established that a communication skills

workshop aimed at encouraging clinicians to be reflective about their own emotions and their

behavioural responses, enabled the participating clinicians to better differentiate their emotions from

those of their patients. This occurs in particular, when clinicians were introduced to the notion of

mindfulness, and the ability to be aware of their emotions.

4

(cid:33)(cid:6)(cid:34)(cid:6)(cid:35)(cid:11)(cid:36)(cid:11)(cid:34)(cid:4)(cid:9)(cid:24)(cid:31)(cid:4)(cid:11)(cid:5)(cid:6)(cid:4)(cid:32)(cid:5)(cid:11)(cid:9)

Beyond the healthcare field, the literature on difficult conversations is largely concentrated in the

popular press, consisting mainly of self(cid:47)help books. These books provide advice for managers on how

to conduct difficult conversations with employees more effectively. Given the paucity of peer(cid:47)

reviewed academic research on this topic, we will consider in this section the themes and insights that

emerge from the self(cid:47)help literature on difficult conversations, which can signal interesting areas for

further research. This will be followed by a brief discussion of the two peer(cid:47)reviewed works that

tackled difficult conversations beyond the healthcare field, from a management perspective.

(cid:35)(cid:12)(cid:6)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:16)(cid:12)(cid:6)(cid:19)(cid:8)(cid:6)(cid:2)(cid:7)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:15)(cid:7)(cid:5)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:8)

Writers in the self(cid:47)help domain use slightly different labels to characterise the phenomenon of

difficult conversations. In essence, these conversations refer to uncertain outcomes, where those

involved care deeply about what is being discussed and also about the people with whom they are

discussing the issue. Patterson et al. (2012) use the term ‘crucial conversations’ to describe

conversations where the stakes are high, opinions vary and emotions run high. They note that such

conversations occur, for example, when a manager discusses an employee’s performance; when an

employee approaches their manager to ask for a pay rise; or when a manager approaches an employee

to discuss a personal hygiene matter. Flagg (2009) uses the term ‘dreaded conversations’ to describe

situations that include, communicating negative messages or the delivery of bad news to another
