# (cid:34)(cid:43) (cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:11)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:7)(cid:12)(cid:2)(cid:6)(cid:2)(cid:8)(cid:13)(cid:35)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:15)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:7)(cid:13)(cid:16)(cid:3)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:17)(cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:15)(cid:2)(cid:19)(cid:10) (cid:10)

(cid:51) (cid:30)(cid:7)(cid:11)(cid:3)(cid:10)(cid:2)(cid:31)(cid:15)(cid:8)(cid:55)(cid:7)(cid:44)(cid:7)(cid:15)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:2)(cid:4)(cid:8)(cid:30)(cid:15)(cid:31)(cid:2)(cid:2)(cid:5)(cid:2)(cid:33)(cid:8)

The CIPD survey of performance management (2005) found that about two-thirds of respondents (62 per cent) reported that they used personal development planning in their formal performance management processes. Performance appraisal is considered to be a key tool for the identifying training and development needs of an individual (Wilson et al., 2000). All of the organisations in the IDS study (2008) were using competencies to assess and plan the development needs of employees, with development planning generally following directly on from the appraisal process. The CIPD found that some 71 per cent of respondents to its performance management survey agreed that the focus of performance management is developmental (CIPD, 2005). The assessments of competency gaps inform the learning requirements for the employee’s development plan. For ambitious employees or those wishing to make lateral moves across the organisation, being aware of the competencies and levels of performance required to perform another role facilitates the creation of development plans to gain those competencies required (IDS, 2008).

As development goals are typically informed by the gaps in competencies or behaviours there must be a fundamental link between development planning and the performance management process. IDS reported that some organisations separate the performance assessment and development planning processes to place greater emphasis on each. However, IDS states that this can ‘create a more complicated or unwieldy structure and blur the link between development activities and the achievement of performance goals’ (IDS, 2009, p.6).

Personal development plans are a well established feature of performance management. Fletcher (1995) said that ‘appraisal has a valuable function in developing people and that this is where its motivational value lies.’ The research of Tamkin et al. (1995, p.5) shows that personal development plans are most commonly focused on job or career development or a mix of both. They state that ‘personal development plans which focus solely on skill development for the current job will not be welcome by