## in difficult conversations in the workplace.

The limitation of this exploratory research is the small sample size and the varying amounts of

management experience of the research participants. These limitations need to be taken into account

when interpreting the results by understanding that the data used in this paper are preliminary findings

and there is a need to have further data analysed within the content of the whole data collected.

These initial findings have theoretical implications for healthcare management literature such as

contributing to understanding the EI of those who engage in difficult conversations. Currently there is

little acknowledgement of how a manager’s EI may contribute to how they engage in these

conversations. Understanding that managers who have high levels of EI are more likely to establish

meaningful relationships due to better communication skills suggests there are practical implications

for healthcare managers in these findings. Recruiting healthcare managers with management

education and experience may not be enough. Recruitment practices that include some EI testing may

12

further tap the human potential within healthcare organisations. Furthermore, the literature suggests

that EI training benefits managers as they develop within organisations (Schlaerth et al., 2013).

Hence, healthcare organisations may also like to include EI training for current and new managers.

This study contributes to the theory on having difficult conversations by explaining how the EI of

managers may contribute to increased interpersonal relationships and better communication during

such conversations. While the emotions of the instigator and receiver of the conversation have been

previously recognised, this paper highlights an individual’s recognition of their own and others

emotions, and their ability to empathise and connect with the other person is likely to influence the

practice and progress of having a difficult conversation.(cid:9)

(cid:40)(cid:22)(cid:33)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:38)(cid:9)(cid:1)(cid:17)(cid:21)(cid:9)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:17)(cid:23)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:40)(cid:16)(cid:20)(cid:17)(cid:9)

The aim of this paper was to explore the experience of MBA and EMBA students engaging in

difficult conversations in their workplace. The initial findings of this study demonstrate a range of

emotions expressed by the participants, for different reasons. Participants expressed emotions such as

feeling anxious, guilty and nervous. For some participants these emotions were a result of their

experience of being confronted by their employee’s emotions during the conversations. Other

participants experienced emotion from their concern of upsetting their employees before or during the

conversation. These differences suggest that individuals experience emotion for different reasons