---
source_path: microsoft_word_jole_8_2_fall_2009_doc.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e0222232d7d6d563289722d0e03815394241b391
title: microsoft_word_jole_8_2_fall_2009_doc
---
## Journal of Leadership Education Volume 8, Issue 2 – Fall 2009

Second, while it is possible that the sporting fields and arenas could serve as a venue for experience-based learning of leadership skills, several of the key elements necessary for learning are not present. Thomas and Cheese (2005) outline three key phases of experience-based learning: preparing, developing, and preserving. Proper preparation requires assessment of strengths and weaknesses, personal values, and learning style. Developing involves practice of the skill, while preserving involves feedback and revision of learning objectives. Consistent with the preservation factor, Connaughton, Lawrence, and Ruben (2003) point out that good leadership development programs encourage the students to reflect on their leadership processes both inside and outside of the classroom. We argue that while the typical sports team experience may develop leadership-related skills, systematic attention is paid not paid to preparation or preservation. Bredemeier and Shields (2006), in a literature review focusing on sports as a social experience and character development conclude that “sports can build character, but only if coaches deliberately seek to do so and are adequately informed regarding the educational processes required” (p.6). Anecdotal evidence from our study participants during debriefing revealed that feedback from coaches centered on sports-related skills. Even participants designated as a team captain rarely received feedback from a coach regarding their leadership role. If anything, team leaders reported that they tried to model their own leadership behaviors for those of the team coach.

Finally, leadership behaviors developed through sports may not be transferable to classroom, much less the boardroom. Just as the classroom teaching of abstract leadership constructs is criticized for its lack of transferability to in the workplace, so too the skills learned in a competitive athletic contest may not transfer to a corporate setting. McKenna (2004) argues that managerial skills “cannot be developed in isolation of context” (p. 674). Athletes may only see their field- developed skills as applicable to sports, and therefore do not use or practice them in the workplace.

Human resources managers, especially those involved with campus recruiting should consider the results of this study in their decision-making. The authors’ experience with campus recruiters is that many of them put a high premium on recruiting college athletes because they believe that experience increases their leadership skills, especially teamwork and motivation skills. An executive recruiter of CFOs stated that he looks for “people who have been in athletics at a high level” (Today’s Finance Leaders, 2002). The findings of this study caution recruiters and other persons making personnel decisions against using this past behavior as an indicator of these or any other leadership skills. By showing a preference for athletes, persons who would be a good fit in the job may be bypassed unnecessarily. Further research on this topic will focus on whether sports develop skills in certain types of persons and not others (e.g., males v females) and its effect on skills not measured in an assessment center.

232

(cid:68)(cid:111)(cid:119)(cid:110)(cid:108)(cid:111)(cid:97)(cid:100)(cid:101)(cid:100)(cid:32)(cid:102)(cid:114)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:32)(cid:104)(cid:116)(cid:116)(cid:112)(cid:58)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:119)(cid:46)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:97)(cid:108)(cid:100)(cid:46)(cid:99)(cid:111)(cid:109)(cid:47)(cid:106)(cid:111)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:47)(cid:97)(cid:114)(cid:116)(cid:105)(cid:99)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:45)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:47)(cid:56)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:50)(cid:52)(cid:47)(cid:49)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:54)(cid:53)(cid:57)(cid:56)(cid:53)(cid:47)(cid:118)(cid:56)(cid:95)(cid:105)(cid:50)(cid:95)(cid:114)(cid:102)(cid:55)(cid:46)(cid:112)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:32)(cid:98)(cid:121)(cid:32)(cid:103)(cid:117)(cid:101)(cid:115)(cid:116)(cid:32)(cid:111)(cid:110)(cid:32)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:32)(cid:83)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:116)(cid:101)(cid:109)(cid:98)(cid:101)(cid:114)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:50)(cid:53)
