---
source_path: microsoft_word_performance_management_literature_review_doc.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8cddb1099eb0cb4b9e05a42db08bef4eb8d6d7e3
title: microsoft_word_performance_management_literature_review_doc
---
# (cid:33)(cid:39) (cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:11)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:7)(cid:12)(cid:2)(cid:6)(cid:2)(cid:8)(cid:13)(cid:35)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:15)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:7)(cid:13)(cid:16)(cid:3)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:17)(cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:15)(cid:2)(cid:19)(cid:10) (cid:10)

fewer concerns about ‘unethical treatment ‘(ibid.). Research shows that collecting feedback from multiple sources is desirable because they give a complete perspective about employees’ performance and reduce the chance of ethical concerns (Longenecker et al., 1987, cited in Sillup, 2010).

Sillup et al (2010) found through research with five US-based organisations that all were using annual 360-degree feedback. Within each organisation, the majority of performance evaluators and employees (87 per cent) had received training about their performance appraisal system and 85 per cent of evaluators helped their employees set objectives. However, only 20 per cent of the evaluators with greater responsibility within the organisation were seeking feedback about an employee’s performance from peers, which was inconsistent with the 360 appraisal system.

(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:34) (cid:26)(cid:10)(cid:13)(cid:13)(cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:4)(cid:7)(cid:18)(cid:8)(cid:31)(cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:8)(cid:28)(cid:31)(cid:14)(cid:31)(cid:49)(cid:15)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:13)(cid:31)(cid:2)(cid:31)(cid:33)(cid:7)(cid:11)(cid:3)(cid:8)

In order for regular and quality discussions to take place, the commitment and capability of managers needs to be developed and this should be an important consideration in the design and implementation of a performance management system. Purcell’s research at the University of Bath identified this as key in ‘bringing HR policies to life’. Purcell et al. (2003) included appraisal as one of eleven HR practices investigated for their potential links to performance. This report found that employees were more likely to ‘go the extra mile if managers stimulate and encourage positive attitudes’. Purcell concluded that appraisal is an HR practice worth paying attention to because it offers line managers the opportunity to bring about ‘commitment, job satisfaction, and motivation… which in turn lead to discretionary behaviour.’

Research by Baron also supports the widely held view that performance management needs to be ‘owned’ by line managers (Baron, 2004). Rees and Porter (2004) state that for a scheme to ‘have any prospect of success it needs to be owned and driven by line management’ (Rees & Porter, 2004, p.31) and senior management commitment has to be maintained (Wolff, 2005). Sillup et al. (2010) state that ‘many performance appraisal systems fail because organisations do not direct enough effort into gaining support for the process from those managers who will implement the system and Lewy and Du Mee (1998, cited in De Waal, 2003) argue that successful implementation and use of a performance management system will be achieved when managers have an ‘intensified awareness of the importance of the performance management system’ (p.694). De Waal (2003) also states that ‘managers’ understanding of the nature of performance management is a key behavioural factor for the successful implementation of performance management and that a positive attitude of managers towards performance management is vital’. A good alignment between managers' responsibilities and the performance management system is also considered necessary. Martinez (2005) also found through research at an electricity company that at a tactical level, the performance
