# (cid:33)(cid:43) (cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:11)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:7)(cid:12)(cid:2)(cid:6)(cid:2)(cid:8)(cid:13)(cid:35)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:15)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:7)(cid:13)(cid:16)(cid:3)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:17)(cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:15)(cid:2)(cid:19)(cid:10) (cid:10)

(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:40) (cid:17)(cid:4)(cid:11)(cid:10)(cid:2)(cid:33)(cid:8)(cid:15)(cid:7)(cid:31)(cid:18)(cid:7)(cid:11)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:5)(cid:14)(cid:8)

Baron (2004) commented that organisations are winning support from line managers through ensuring there is strong leadership from the top of the organisation; involving line managers in the development of performance management processes and including performance management as a criterion in assessing line managers’ own performance. It is important for leaders to be fully involved in the performance management process (Karuhanga, 2010) and as Buchner, 2007 states in regard to successful implementation of performance appraisal systems ‘success begins with top-down support but requires bottom-up support for it to work’ (cited in Silip et al., 2010, p.40) and Finn (2007, cited in Wikina, 2008) states that gaining stakeholder commitment is the first step in the foundations for successful performance management. Equally, Franco & Bourne (2003, 2005, cited in Elzinga et al., 2009) found that top management agreement and commitment was a crucial factor related to the effective implementation of performance management. Alongside this, they also identify the ‘three E’s as crucial to implementation, being Empowering, Enabling and Encouraging behaviours from senior management.

Wikina (2008) adds that senior management needs to show leadership and set the tone for performance management, ‘building the right culture based on efficient delivery of service, organised and multidisciplinary teamwork, and effective communication at all levels’. Wikina also states that the leadership needs to provide and allocate tools for performance management and improvement.

(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:41) (cid:35)(cid:15)(cid:5)(cid:33)(cid:2)(cid:8)(cid:24)(cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:20)(cid:8)(cid:10)(cid:11)(cid:33)(cid:31)(cid:2)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:31)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:10)(cid:2)(cid:31)(cid:15)(cid:8)(cid:33)(cid:10)(cid:31)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:8)

Senior leaders should also play a role in ensuring performance management aligns corporate strategy and objectives to individuals, so that employees know how what they do fits with the organisation’s overall strategy. This is known as the ‘golden thread’ of performance management (IDeA, 2004).

Stiffler (2006, cited in Wikina, 2008) recommends that a ‘unified approach to performance management’ is achieved through aligning the objectives, resources and activities of the organisation to the goals and opportunities of individuals within the organisation (Karuhanga, 2010). Lawson et al. (2003, cited in Elzinga et al., 2009) found through research in 150 organisations, that two-thirds agreed that implementing performance management systems increased employees’ awareness of company strategy and business plan goals, and helped to align operational improvements with overall strategy. Wikina (2008) found that the need to align performance and goals with organisational strategy is causing organisations to examine the performance management structures they have in place and devise ways to make them more effective and outcome-based.