---
source_path: needs_of_human_resource_professionals_in_implicit_bias_and_disability_inclusion.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0018968584421c3d783a027b3b4be4b6f7df396a
title: needs_of_human_resource_professionals_in_implicit_bias_and_disability_inclusion
---
# 4.4. Case studies

The case study training method involves giving an employee a scenario that is a typical work situation or problem. Employees then analyze the case, either as a group or independently, and develop the appropriate solution. Employees then become able to recognize these situations in the workplace and quickly work to identify and implement possible solutions. This results in employees who are better prepared to handle complex situations by applying knowledge and skills outlined in the case study. In designing the curriculum for the implicit bias and disability inclusion training case study examples include: role-playing a HR manager working cooperatively with an employee with a disability (e.g., spinal cord injury) to solve a job accommodation issue, showing a brief video of how disability bias can affect the employment outcome of an applicant with a hidden disability (e.g., epilepsy), or a scenario of how a supervisor helps an employee with a disability to improve job performance.

The use of case studies as an effective instructional strategy extends across disciplines and time. In fact, Harvard Business School pioneered the use of case studies to successfully teach management techniques in 1921 (Nohria, 2021). The case study method teaches students how to apply theory in practice, how to induce theory from practice, and cultivates the capacity for critical analysis, judgment, decision-making, and action (Nohria, 2021). Recent research points to the usefulness of case studies in health professional programs. Students report instruction that incorporates case studies enhances learning, and instructors find it to be an engaging and motivating teaching method (Thistlethwaite et al., 2012). More recent research further supports findings from the current study, as nursing students report positive effects of teaching effectiveness when instruction involved case studies (Mohamed & Abdulrahman, 2020). Case studies are incredibly effective and relevant and often the best training method for developing problem-solving and analytical skills. As a result, incorporating the use of multiple case studies into implicit bias and disability inclusion training may contribute to improved outcomes regarding the impact of implicit bias on individuals with disabilities.

- 5. Conclusion

The current study investigated strategies to improve implicit bias and disability inclusion training for HR professionals with attention to individuals with disabilities. Two focus groups of HR professionals were conducted, and the data was analyzed using consensual qualitative research methodology. Findings point to four themes in the data which provide clear guidelines for the development of implicit bias and disability inclusion training toward people with disabilities. Specifically, HR professionals indicated the need for 1) educational information on implicit and explicit bias, 2) disability inclusion information and strategies, 3) consideration of multiple learning modalities, and 4) case studies when designing implicit bias training. With attention to these four themes, training can be

J Vocat Rehabil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 September 16.
