---
source_path: needs_of_human_resource_professionals_in_implicit_bias_and_disability_inclusion.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 91ec55c36f10b1e9704414c93eed3f5312f1cb56
title: needs_of_human_resource_professionals_in_implicit_bias_and_disability_inclusion
---
# Bezyak et al.

several focus groups conducted with employers in Chicago and Milwaukee identified six disability employment stigmas: 1) people with disabilities often require extra time to learn new job tasks, 2) people with disabilities require accommodations to do the job, 3) people with disabilities have trouble getting their work done on time and often need help from others, 4) co-workers are uncomfortable, 5) people with disabilities tend to call in sick more, and 6) people with disabilities have trouble getting along with others on the job (Amir et al., 2009).

This evidence documenting stigma towards individuals with disabilities in the workplace is contrary to employers’ reported beliefs about people with disabilities when explicitly asked in various survey research studies (Hernandez et al., 2000). This obvious disconnect between employers’ reported attitudes and hiring behaviors is related to the direct measurement of attitudes, which means participants are aware that their attitudes are being measures and alter responses to be more socially desirable (Antonak & Livneh, 1995; Pruett & Chan, 2006). An alternative to direct measurement of attitudes is the Implicit Association Test (IAT), which was developed by Greenwald and colleagues (1998). The IAT is based on attribution theory, which focuses on the controllability of perceptions (Kelley, 1967), and it measures implicit cognition, which is bias that may be present even if negative attitudes are not overtly expressed (Greenwald & Banaji, 1995; Greenwald et al., 2002).

Research investigating the implicit bias of employers towards individuals with disabilities further highlights the importance of increased attention to implicit bias in the workplace. There is strong research evidence to support the use of the IAT to measure implicit bias toward people with disabilities (Bezyak et al., 2020; Pruett & Chan, 2006). Additional investigations expose the negative impact of implicit bias on individuals with disabilities. For example, employers were found to have strongly negative implicit attitudes about the competence of people who are blind (McDonnall & Antonelli, 2019). Similar negative implicit attitudes of employers towards individuals with depression and individuals with physical disabilities have been uncovered (Dovidio et al, 2011.; Florence & Marc, 2021).

In addition to evidence documenting implicit bias toward individuals with disabilities in the workplace, research supports efforts to promote awareness and education of implicit bias toward people with disabilities among employers. Specific training for employers addressing implicit and explicit bias has been identified as effective tools to combat the negative impact of stigma (Dolce & Bates, 2018; Florence & Marc, 2021; McDonnall & Antonelli, 2022). In fact, a recent meta-analysis which documented moderately negative implicit bias toward people with disabilities suggests strategies to shift bias are essential (Antonopoulos et al., 2023).
