# y b

d e d a o l n w o D

The results obtained in this exploration recommended that the proposed hypotheses are validated and accepted based on the research objectives and provide theoretical as well as empirical support to the existing body of literature. The business entities must focus on organizational justice, conflict management and building of trust among the individuals for the enhancement of a congenial ER climate. Moreover, the above discussion substantiates the relevance of ER and provides fresh insights for academicians and practitioners.

- 7. Implications The comprehensive results of this research are convincing and contribute for a better grasp over ER. These findings are of great importance to both scholars and practitioners.

7.1 Theoretical implications This scholarly work furnishes a comprehensive model by affirming the importance of the concepts of organizational justice and conflict management and their influence on ER by the mediator of climate of trust. This study is new by initiating climate of trust as the mediating mechanism that can provide intuition for establishing healthy organization–employee relations. The promotion of organizational fairness and adequate management of conflicts enhance mutual trust between employers and employees. Finally, this investigation is administered in a power sector where a very limited study has been conducted by adopting the concept of ER. Therefore, an insightful contribution can be recommended as a great interest for scholars in the field of ER literature.

7.2 Practical implications The overall outcomes of this study highlighted several implications for the managers and decision makers. The research findings suggest that the significance and affirmative consequences of organizational justice, conflict management, climate of trust and ER may encourage organizations to develop proactive strategies to magnify employee satisfaction, commitment and performance toward achieving challenging goals. The research outcomes may help the managers to construct a climate of trust by emphasizing on organizational justice and effective management of conflicts for reshaping cordial employer–employee relationship in the workplace. As a new insight, it may also support the managers to exhibit generosity to employees for their valued contributions. By flourishing congenial ER, organizations could institute a facilitative work environment and embryonic positive attitude among the employees to cooperate and shore up management to take effective decisions. Therefore, managers may manifest their obligations to make employees feel contented to work voluntarily for the success of organizations.

- 8. Limitations and suggestions for future research This scholarly endeavor though highlighted the significant outcomes, encountered some limitations. The major drawback is the size of the sample that was confined only to a single power transmission unit of a particular state of India. Future research could be extended by conducting longitudinal studies considering other public and private power sector located across the country. Thus, a series of comparative analysis could be presented to attain the generalizability of results. This approach could be modeled into a cross-cultural study by considering the international perspectives. Furthermore, climate of trust was employed as a mediatorbetweenorganizationaljusticeandER,andconflictmanagementandER.Asforfuture research, other variables could be suggested to play therole of mediator toenrich the knowledge of ER. The model proposed in this research could be extended to alternative constructs and also to emphasize on different dimensions for a better understanding of their significance and influence on ER within the framework of a power sector and other business units.