---
source_path: organizational_belonging_proposing_a_new_scale_and_its_relationship_to_demograph.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b7bb9d196c9c7cabf9ce9eb410486661e06bfc7d
title: organizational_belonging_proposing_a_new_scale_and_its_relationship_to_demograph
---
# JOURNAL OF WORKPLACE BEHAVIORAL HEALTH

loneliness: Generation Z leaving because of differences in likeliness of (54%); Millenials (52%); Generation X (42%); and Baby Boomers (31%). Herbert (2020) found that 78% of employees who felt like they belonged rated their well-being favorably versus 28% who felt they didn’t belong rat- ing their well-being favorably. From a more extreme perspective, Boccio and Macari (2013) argued that fostering a sense of belonging can prevent workplace suicide.

In terms of practice, perhaps the most powerful OB scale for employees is Be Myself. This represents the freedom to voice a contrary opinion with- out fear of negative consequences and being your authentic self, regardless of employee diversity (e.g., race, gender identity, culture and ethnicity, health, disability, generation). As noted, missing sample respondents were found to be lower on Be Myself, Acceptance and Connection. There were also mean sub-sample differences on OB scales, e.g., management level employees perceived higher Be Myself and Connection than non-manage- ment employees; males were significantly higher on two of the four scales, i.e., Acceptance and Diversity Valued and Christians had higher perceived Connection than non-Christians. Given the sensitivity of testing for any employee individual differences in perceived OB, using an anonymous sur- vey technique helped to surface such differences. However, finding initial group differences in employee perceptions of OB raises follow-up ethical concerns, for example, how to address these differences without singling out employees? First, it is important for any organization to make each employees feel safe enough so that data can be collected from ideally all employees when measuring OB. Then, follow-up from a trustworthy pro- active Human Resource Department could supplement a survey with other more personalized data collection techniques, including focus groups and interviews. Finally, different feedback forums such as department meetings and general town halls would allow for all employees to participate and voice their opinions. Any demographic differences in perceived OB, for example as found in this study for gender and position level, presents an opportunity for Human Resource Departments to work on programs that are targeted to the needs of these specific groups.
