---
source_path: organizational_belonging_proposing_a_new_scale_and_its_relationship_to_demograph.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d8df3e7d3322c9dd192d3d6344eb9761f8d945fa
title: organizational_belonging_proposing_a_new_scale_and_its_relationship_to_demograph
---
# G. BLAU ET AL.

these three scales, it seems assumed that all are equally weighted (Knapp et al., 2014), but how do we know this is accurate? For example, in Knapp et al. (2014, p. 278), different means were reported, i.e., perceived insider status, M¼5.27, psychological ownership, M¼3.99, organizational identifi- cation, M¼4.88, which should have been tested for mean scale differences. Further skepticism about equal weighting occurs when Knapp et al. (2014) also found that when all three scales were entered simultaneously for explaining turnover intentions, organizational identification was not signifi- cant, unlike both perceived insider status and psychological ownership. Knapp et al. (2014, p. 281) speculated that “the nature of the relationship between organizational identification and outcomes operate through a dif- ferent mechanism than the other two aspects of belonging.”

If this OB definition is still valid, collectively these empirical concerns necessitate the ongoing validation of a stronger composite measure of OB identification, and organizational combining insider status, psychological identification (Booysen, 2002). It is important to emphasize again that prior empirical work to date on OB has generally worked with these individual components, not an overall measure of OB. There has also been related scale research on the concepts of workplace belongingness, employee belongingness and organizational connectedness, as well as general belong- ing, which needs to be briefly reviewed.

Prior work on workplace belongingness, employee belongingness, and organ- izational connectedness scales Jena and Pradham (2018) published a 12-item Workplace Belongingness scale, which they defined as (p. 454) “intending to capture the professio- nals’ belongingness towards their job and organization in both letter and spirit.” Their sample of 824 Indian respondents consisted of 69% male executives, and 72% professional graduate degree holders. The item content shows that it is combining heterogeneous statements together into one scale (p. 456). There are items reflecting organizational identification, e.g., “I refer as ‘we/us’ rather than ‘they/them’ when I refer my organization to outsiders,”; values, e.g., “I feel that there is a semblance between my organ- ization and my own values and beliefs”; needs, e.g., “my personal needs are well met by my organization,” rewards, e.g., “accomplishments at work are adequately rewarded in my organization,” and a career perspective, e.g., “my career goals are well considered by my organization.” This item het- erogeneity, combined with the sample used, would seem to limit their scale generalizability across other sample settings.

Studies by Randall, Lartey, and Tate (2020) and Gao, Low, and Gong (2022) used employee belongingness measures. Randall et al. (2020) investi- gated the relationship between enterprise social media (ESM) use and
