# JOURNAL OF WORKPLACE BEHAVIORAL HEALTH

t(135) ¼ (cid:2)2.06, p < .05; and higher on Diversity Valued (M¼5.35) than women (M¼5.18), t(135) ¼ (cid:2)1.73, p < .10. In order to test for race, all nonwhite respondents needed to be combined, and even with combining these categories, the sample size was still small, n¼24 compared to Whites (n¼118). However, there were no significant differences on any OB scale for white versus nonwhite groups. For religion, Christian was the dominant group (n¼88), and all non-Christians needed be combined together (n¼48). There was one significant difference, Christians had higher Connection (M¼5.07) than non-Christians (M¼4.76), t(134) ¼ 2.09, p < .05. To test for differences in position level/role, two groups were created: management, n¼55 (39%) versus non-management, n¼85, (61%). There were two marginally significant differences: management was higher on Be Myself (M¼5.13) than non-management (M¼4.92), t(137) ¼ 1.75, p < .10, and on Connection (M¼5.11) than non-management (M¼4.83), t(137) ¼ 1.85, p < .10.

Testing the third research question RQ3 stated OB scales will contribute to explaining productivity and intent to stay beyond controlled for demographic and organization variables. Hierarchical regression was used to test this research question, and as noted above, race, religion, and position level/role needed to be combined into two groups (Stevens, 1996). A three-step process was used, first con- trolling for the set of demographic variables (Step 1) and then organiza- tional variables (Step 2) before entering all four OB scales together (Step 3). This final step will determine the relative “importance” of these scales when competing for explaining an outcome (Stevens, 1996). Due to missing data, the sample size was reduced from 124 to 120. However, the respon- dents/predictors or N/K ratio of 120/11 used exceeded the recommended 10:1 ratio (Stevens, 1996) for regression analyses.

Prior to regression analyses, using case-wise deletion, independent sam- ple t-tests were done for complete-data versus missing-data respondents across all variables shown in Table 4. The results showed three significant t-test results. Complete data respondents had higher means (M) than miss- ing data respondents on three of the four OB scales: Be Myself, complete t(141) ¼ 2.28, p < .05; data M¼5.05, Acceptance, complete data M¼5.35, incomplete data M¼5.00, t(140) ¼ 2.01, p < .05; and Connection, complete data M¼5.02, incomplete data M¼4.48, t(140) ¼ 2.54, p < .05.

incomplete data M¼4.66,

The final regression models for explaining Productivity and Intent to Stay are shown in Table 4. Total variance explained (R2) and overall F values with successive steps, as well as changes in variance explained by each step are reported. At the end of each model, total variance explained,