---
source_path: organizational_justice_conflict_management_and_employee_relations.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 884b9d4796db97b47d9244c5dfabdbdbe33b1782
title: organizational_justice_conflict_management_and_employee_relations
---
# The current issue and full text archive of this journal is available on Emerald Insight at: www.emeraldinsight.com/0143-7720.htm

Organizational justice, conflict management and employee relations The mediating role of climate of trust Rojalin Sahoo and Chandan Kumar Sahoo School of Management, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela, India

Abstract Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to examine the impact of organizational justice and conflict management on employee relations (ER) through the mediating role of climate of trust. Design/methodology/approach – This study was conducted with a sample of 331 employees working in a power transmission unit of Odisha. Data were collected by administering a structured questionnaire and analyzed using structural equation modeling (AMOS 20). Findings – The results reveal that climate of trust plays the role of a partial mediator between organizational justice and ER and conflict management and ER. Also, it was found that organizational justice, conflict management and climate of trust are the positive and significant predictors of ER. Research limitations/implications – The study was confined to a single state-owned power transmission unit of an Indian state, which restricts its generalizability. The research would benefit from exploration in alternative units. Practical implications – This scholarly work may encourage managers and decision makers to develop trust building climate by focusing on organizational justice and conflict management to flourish an environment of harmonious ER, furthermore to formulate effective strategies for cultivating facilitative work environment to enhance positive attitude among the employees to challenge future goals. Originality/value – The research is exclusive in determining the influence of organizational justice and conflict management on ER through the mediator of climate of trust in the new perspective of the power sector that provides empirical evidence to the extant literature. Keywords Employee relations, Employees, Organizational justice, Conflict management, Employers, Climate of trust, Power transmission unit Paper type Research paper

- 1. Introduction The domination of heightened competition has enforced the power sector undertakings to drive the human resource to confront the dynamic and challenging world. In order to survive and thrive, the organization needs to develop strategies to make the employees feel happy and satisfied, as they are the most critical stakeholders and business partners (Kim and Rhee, 2011). Employees share the workspace with their teammates, supervisors and managers under a common ceiling by enduring the channel of communication based on which a relationship is initiated. The exchange of obligations and rights between employees and employers is the prime promoter of employee relations (ER). It is the building block of an organization that directly affects the attitudes and behaviors of the employees (Masterson et al., 2000). An effective ER is, hence, indispensable to the success of both the individuals and the organization as a whole (Gennard, 2002; Madlock and Booth-Butterfield, 2012). Employees, the most vital assets with their attitudes, behaviors and performance, have enormous contribution toward the organizational success (Men, 2012). Researchers and scholars accentuate organizational justice as elementary in understanding the attitude and behaviorof theindividuals(Cropanzanoetal., 2001). Theimportanceof justiceisthusobligatory

This paper is presented at the 9th Conference on Excellence in Research and Education (CERE 2018), held on May 3–6, 2018 at the Indian Institute of Management Indore, India.
