# Study strengths and limitations

Perhaps the biggest concern is the validity of the new four OB scales, Be Myself, Acceptance, Diversity Valued and Connection. The sample to items ratio of 5.2–1 used for the exploratory factor analysis met the minimum recommended ratio of 5:1 (Suhr, 2006). However, the strength of the factor loadings on the 16 retained items was very strong, supporting the reliability of the factor analytic solution (Beavers et al., 2013). Follow-up scale forma- tion showed good internal consistency estimates for all four scales, includ- ing the two-item Connection scale, and scale inter-correlations showed the four OB scales were distinct. Of the four scales, Diversity Valued had the lowest internal consistency (alpha ¼ 0.71) and the fewest matched open item responses. There were several diversity-related items asked (Table 2), e.g., “meeting culturally diverse employees” (#23) and “access to equal employment opportunities” (#24), which had to be deleted due to double loading complications. However, the demographic breakdown of the overall sample showing it to be primarily White and Christian (Table 1) may have contributed to these complications, and the weaker open item response fre- quency. Given the need for diversity, equality and inclusion (Herbert, 2020) as part of OB, these items should be retained for future testing, as they are part of the belonging construct (May, 2011).

Future research with larger, more diverse samples is needed to further validate these scales. The research design was limited by the overall homo- geneity of the samples, despite being from two different organizations. In addition, although survey anonymity did not allow for identifying which employees worked remotely versus in-person, since such a large percentage (77%) of Company A employees were working remotely during the initial data collection (although this percentage was not known for Company B employees), it must be assumed that many who filled out the survey were working remotely. Thus, this new OB scale would seem to be applicable to the remote workplace. This data was collected during the pandemic, and research (Yang et al., 2022) has shown that remote work has made collab- oration more difficult during the pandemic, as well as leading to a decline in relatedness needs being met, e.g., feeling part of the group (Schade, Digutsch, Kleinsorge & Fan, 2021). However, De Smet, Dowling, Mugayar- Baldocci, and Spratt (2022) argued that “it’s not about the office, it’s about belonging” citing their McKinsey international survey findings about pan- demic-era employees who left their jobs primarily due to not feeling valued or having a sense of belonging. By uneasy contrast, surveyed employers (i.e., chief talent officers/managers) overlooked these relational elements, instead citing better compensation and work-life balance as the main rea- sons for why they thought employees quit.