data/clean/original_article__chunk0124.md, before:

# this

than typical predictive model of corporate proﬁtability (R2=0.20) exceeding the most recent preva- lent R2 (ranging from 0.07 to 0.16) of other recent academic works using proﬁtability as a dependent variable (Ali Shah, 2009; Gill et al, 2010; Gill and Obradovich, 2012). In addition, we observed fairly strong Squared Multiple Correlations (R2) for TTP (0.70) and TP (0.44), presented in Table 7.

Structural model We tested our hypotheses using structural equation modeling employing IBM SPSS and AMOS software version 20. We tested the hypothesized model and then eliminated non- signiﬁcant relationships in order to achieve adequate model ﬁt. We appropriately co-varied the residual errors for TP and TTP (Bateman et al, 2002; Hare, 2003; Kenny, 2003; Collins and Parker, 2010). Thus, we were able to account for their statistical correlation, without implying theoretical causation. We employed to test mediation: ﬁrst, we two approaches took the Baron and Kenny (1986) approach in which we tested changes to the direct effect

We had excellent model ﬁt (CMIN/DF= 1.29, CFI=0.988, NFI=0.949, RMSEA= 0.04, PCLOSE=0.636, Standardized RMR= 0.0571, χ2=32.21, Degrees of freedom=25). In terms of the validity and reliability of our latent constructs, we found no concerns (that is, AVE>0.50, CR>0.70, MSV<AVE and √AVE>inter-construct correlations).

RESULTS The results of our analyses are presented in both Figure 2 and Table 8. These two representa- tions provide a summary of our ﬁndings for each hypothesis tested.

© 2015 Macmillan Publishers Ltd. 1741-3591 International Journal of Disclosure and Governance Vol. 12, 2, 107–131

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/original_article__chunk0124.md, after:

---
source_path: original_article.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 83eb414e0b90e55b18d452a6d86c1235b28ebefc
title: original_article
---
# RESEARCH METHOD

Measurement model We used validated scales in a different context than the original use, and we performed an EFA and a conﬁrmatory factor analysis on the should theoretically that observed variables comprise latent constructs, with both analyses yielding passing levels of model ﬁt, reliability and validity (CMIN/DF=1.94, CFI=0.89, NFI=0.79, RMSEA=0.07, PCLOSE=0.000, StandardizedRMR=0.086,χ2=1170.9,Degrees of freedom=603). Normality of the composite variables for each of the constructs (calculated using factor scores from the measurement model in AMOS) passed tests for skewness and kurtosis, but the proﬁtability performance score was slightly skewed (2.20) and exhibited moderate kurtosis (4.49). We believe that these low levels are not problematic in our analysis. In addressing common method bias, we use multiple sources of data for our model, therefore it is less likely that common method bias will impact our results.

after adding the mediating variable; second, we conducted bootstrapping using 2000 bias- second corrected approach allowed us to determine the strength and signiﬁcance of the standardized indirect effect of (Baron the mediated relationships and Kenny, 1986; Preacher and Hayes, 2004). To best understand a surprising relationship, we ran a multiple regression analysis between the factors of TTP and proﬁtability ﬁrst-order performance, and found that the quality factor, representing the area of compliance, had a dominative negative impact, outweighing the positive impact of skills and innovation. Therefore, we consider TTP to be almost exclusively reﬂective of the team’s attention to compliance quality. The means, standard deviations and correlations of variables are reported in Table 6. We ﬁnd that board member characteristics are strong antecedents to board-level outcomes, which are signiﬁ- cantly related to ﬁrm performance. Overall, we had a stronger

resamples. Using
