# Charas

(Guzzo et al, 1993). Our model demonstrates that TP is a strong predictor of proﬁtability (0.44, P<0.01). The model also demonstrates the strong relationship between TIQ and TP (0.66, P<0.01), further indicating the impor- tance of a healthy dynamic in the boardroom. As expressed by Guzzo et al (1993), the way to improve potency is to energize and inspire others, enlist commitments and set high goals, and address unproductive conﬂict among team members. It is clear that team dynamics is the critical ‘intervening process’ that drives not only TTP, but TP as well, and why it is so vital in high-performing teams. On the basis of the results of our analysis, our single model could easily capture two distinct theoretical frame- works: the economic-based model that only considers director PC and SC as antecedents to proﬁtability has validity; and a second beha- vioral model that begins with TIQ and shows how critical TIQ is in generating TTP and TP, which in turn are strong predictors of relative proﬁtability. The combined theoretical frame- works have greater predictive value.

sources of data, and our research is based on primary data, we believe that our participant size is supportable. In addition, to fully under- stand the dynamics of the team, multiple per- spectives of the same team needed to be collected. Our work is based on one perspective of team performance on the board. Lastly, we the ﬁrm – selected relative proﬁtability of compared with same-sized organizations in comparable industries – as the measure of performance. There are many other measures that might be better indicators of ﬁrm perfor- mance. Future research should take these lim- into consideration when designing itations further research protocols. In addition, to isolate the impact of team dynamic, we recommend that experimental research be performed by working with boards to enhance their dynamic and measuring the impact of improved dynamic on board- and ﬁrm-level outcomes over time.

LIMITATIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH The model we hypothesized and presented is characterized by several limitations. First, we have approached the problem from a multi- theoretical framework, relying on economic, behavioral and team theory, and we cannot be certain that this was the appropriate framework from which to consider the problem and inter- pret the model. Second, although we have tried to show a statistically signiﬁcant relationship between board-level outcomes and proﬁtability performance, there are many factors that could explain this relationship beyond the constructs selected for this model. Third, although our model has strong predictive signiﬁcance, we based our results on a relatively small sample size of 182 directors. However, given that recent research in this area is based on published

CONCLUSIONS Our research has clearly demonstrated that there is a relationship between director char- acteristics and their impact on corporate proﬁt- ability, as a departure from the prevalent individual-focused economic-based theories. Our model shows that in fact directors do have a statistically signiﬁcant impact on proﬁtability performance, but it is a small impact, explaining less than 0.5 per cent of performance. We have demonstrated that the behaviors of directors – successfully exchanging information, develop- ing trust and a shared mindset, having collective belief in their ability to accomplish their goals – are in fact the intervening processes introduced by F&M (1999) and thus critical to corporate success. We have shown that this team dynamic – heretofore never measured – is the antecedent to economic value creation, and that the impact of ‘boards as teams’ has an 800 per cent or eight times (8X) greater predictive impact on proﬁt- ability performance, as the model suggests that up to 4 per cent of proﬁtability performance is explained by integrated actions at the team level. By considering the board as a team, we

© 2015 Macmillan Publishers Ltd. 1741-3591 International Journal of Disclosure and Governance Vol. 12, 2, 107–131