---
source_path: original_article.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 11db66525d528bf9d37a9571a50970d2359e0580
title: original_article
---
# (PC) Capital quality (TIQ).

Perhaps one of the most important aspects of any successful team is the exchange of informa- tion. It is incumbent on the director to be able to share information to optimize the decision- making process, and it is the team member’s (in our case, the director’s) responsibility to behave in a manner that fosters the exchange of information and facilitates effective decision making. Effective exchange of information is critical in decision making, and we posit that directors have an obligation to be engaged in and contribute to the exchange of information. When information is not effectively exchanged, information asymmetry occurs – ‘different peo- ple know different things … and information asymmetries arise between those who hold that information and those who could potentially make better decisions if they had it’ (Connelly et al, 2011). The ability of the directors to understand each other is contingent upon each individual’s sensitivity to both spoken and tacit or nuanced communication. The tenets of this theory, and its economic implications, ‘lies in

ascribing costs to information acquisition pro- cesses that resolve information asymmetries in a wide range of economic and social phenomena’ (Connelly et al, 2011). The minimization of these information acquisition costs in the boardroom may result in higher levels of deci- sion making, task performance and ultimately proﬁtability. Therefore, dynamics is a measure of the directors’ ability to communicate infor- mation to one another, reducing the econo- mically detrimental information asymmetry – as observed, ‘information asym- metry is likely to play an important role in determining whether boards will be effective in carrying out their duties’ (Rutherford, 2007). We again update F&M’s model by adding an aspect that has not yet been measured at the director level – CQ. CQ is a measure of the individual director’s ‘ability to make sense of unfamiliar contexts and then blend in’ (Earley and Mosakowski, 2004). CQ measures an indi- vidual’s ability to ‘distinguish behaviors pro- duced by the culture in question from behaviors that are peculiar to particular individuals and those found in all human beings’ (Earley and Mosakowski, 2004). We measured CQ as an indicator of the director’s ability to conform with and be successful in the social norms indicative of each board (Charas, 2012), as well as an indicator of the director’s ability to receive and transmit ‘signals’ (Bliege Bird and Smith, 2005). According to Ang and Van Dyne (2008), ‘CQ has relevance to groups, teams, [and] organi- zation’ (Ang and Van Dyne, 2008), and Triandis (2006) adds that individuals with high CQ may be more effective in adapting to organization dynamics as ‘people who are culturally intelli- gent are also more ﬂexible than the average person and thus more able to adjust to different organizational environments’ (Triandis, 2006). Most recently, researchers have identiﬁed that it is the director’s ability to understand the nuan- ces of relationships and social norms in the boardroom that distinguishes high- from low- performing boards (Huse, 1998; Leblanc and Gillies, 2005), and CQ is a direct measure of this – the ability to perceive and adjust one’s
