# Improving corporate performance

behavior to different cultural settings. The value that directors add to the organization is not the knowledge that resides in them (resource pro- viding), but their ability to share this knowledge for the beneﬁt of the ﬁrm (knowledge applica- tion) in a dynamic setting. Therefore, our third set of hypotheses relate to the ability of the director to understand and adapt appro- priately to different cultural settings, optimizing their ability to communicate effectively and impact the dynamic in the boardroom (TIQ), as well as the board’s ability to accomplish tasks. As indicated above, we consider TIQ as the the intervening measure of processes. Several researchers have investigated the phenomena of board dynamics. Erakovic and Overall (2010) describe dynamics as ‘more than a summation of individual contributions where … different people working together in a board-level environment genuinely adds value to the organization’. According to Huse (1998), ‘trust and emotion play … an important part in the boards’ activities’. He adds that dynamic is contingent on the feelings of the directors about their fellow directors’ ‘compe- tence, capacity, timing, even their integrity, their good intentions or their reliability’ (Huse, 1998). F&M (1999) state that board dynamics are heavily dependent on social-psychological pro- cesses, especially related to group participation and interaction, information exchange and dialog (F&M, 1999). Another point of view on the importance of dynamics in the boardroom comes ‘… the quality of the from Letendre (2004): interactions among the participants – or “board- room dynamics” – is a crucial variable in effective decision-making and achieving other desired meeting outcomes’. The question of board team dynamics and board task performance was exam- ined in our study to try to reveal the contents of the ‘black box’ (Gabrielsson and Huse, 2004; Leblanc and Schwartz, 2007) and the direct and indirect impact this has on corporate proﬁtability. In our study, task performance was operationa- lized through collecting information on the skills directors believe the board applies in generating cognitive outcomes, the freedom directors have