# Charas

to contextual and cultural differences (Earley and Mosakowski, 2004) that deﬁne each board environment (board culture), to the intervening processes or the dynamic of the relationships of the board directors (Minichilli et al, 2012) and how they impact resulting board-level outcomes of TP and TTP. TP is a measure of a team’s ‘collective perceived capability of work- ing together to achieve tasks’ (Collins and (2010) Parker, 2010). Collins focused on distinguishing the different drivers of team performance, examining elements of potency, processes and outcomes. TP as iden- tiﬁed, is an important board-level outcome, as teams with a ‘strong belief in their capabilities set higher goals, develop strategies to achieve their goals, and persist in the face of setbacks’ (Collins and Parker, 2010). They also found that ‘the broader bandwidth of team potency may be most predictive when a team does not obtain realistic feedback’ (Collins and Parker, 2010), and given that boards are special teams that meet infrequently and receive little feed- back, the use of potency was appropriate. In a study that focused on the importance of TP compared with other antecedents of TTP, potency was the strongest predictor of team performance (Campion et al, 1993; Champion et al, 1996). According to Ilgen et al (2005), effective teams are characterized by members believing that they are competent enough to accomplish their task (potency), provide an environment of psychological safety, demonstrate a desire to work and stay together (bonding and solidarity), are able to adapt to changing situations, and are able to learn. These team characteristics set the environment for the important intervening processes or board dynamic that is ‘complex and indirect’ (F&M, 1999) and thus crucial in generating vital and effective board-level outcomes. Because CQ is a measure of how well an individual can adapt to different social norms in group settings and TP is a measure of the team’s psychological proﬁle, we posit that it is the that quality of to different enhances