---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b4de6837e7dcb80f5d558db8eb7131690ab44a9e
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Part IV • Reward Systems, Legal Issues, and Team Performance Management

- Negligence. Many organizations outline a performance management system in their employee manual, employment contract, or other materials. When the system is described in such documents and not implemented as described, legal problems can arise. For example, there may be a description of how frequently appraisals take place, or how frequently supervisors and employees are to meet formally to discuss performance issues. If an employee receives what she believes is an unfair performance evaluation and the system has not been implemented as was expected, she may be able to challenge the system based on negligence on the part of the organization.

- Defamation. Defamation is the disclosure of untrue, unfavorable performance information that damages an employee’s reputation. An employee can argue that the organization defamed her if the employer states false and libelous information during the course of the performance evaluation. Defamation can also occur if the organization negligently or intentionally communicates these statements to a third party such as a potential future employer, thus subjecting the employee to harm or loss of reputation. Note that the definition of defamation includes the disclosure of untrue information. Defamation can take place when an employee is evaluated based on behaviors that are irrelevant and not job related, when an evaluator does not include information that would explain or justify poor performance, or when an evaluator revises a prior evaluation in an attempt to jus- tify subsequent adverse action taken against the employee. Defamation does not exist when information regarding poor performance is clearly documented.

- Misrepresentation. Whereas defamation is about disclosing untrue unfavorable information, misrepresentation is about disclosing untrue favorable performance, and this information causes risk or harm to others. When a past employer provides a glowing recommendation for a former employee who was actually terminated because of poor performance, that employer is guilty of misrepresen- tation. As an example, consider a case decided by the Supreme Court of California.38 Randi W., a 13-year-old female student enrolled in a middle school, accused her school vice-principal, Robert Gadams, of sexual molestation. Gadams had received glowing letters of recommendation from other school districts (i.e., his former employers), who had recommended him without reservation. For example, one letter of recommendation stated, “I wouldn’t hesitate to recommend [the vice-principal] for any position!” However, the former employers knew that Gadams had performance problems that included hugging female students and making sexual overtures to them. In fact, he had been pressured to resign because of such behavior. The Supreme Court of California ruled that employers can be held liable for negligent misrepresentation or fraud when an employer fails to use reasonable care in recommending former employees without disclosing material information that has a bearing on their performance.

- Adverse impact. Adverse impact, also called unintentional discrimination, occurs when the performance management system has an unintentional impact on a protected class.39 This can happen when women receive consistently lower perform- ance ratings than men. For example, adverse impact can take place for the position of firefighter if a performance dimension deals with physical strength. If members of a protected class receive consistently lower performance ratings, then the employer must be able to demonstrate that the performance dimension measured is
