---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 692ad567c4bd92d629a6130db2945917d0e3fba2
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Chapter 6 • Gathering Performance Information

the competency “teamwork” at the senior and middle management levels, with the belief that successful teamwork is crucial to change management initiatives. Specifically, one-third of the score for this competency is determined by ratings provided by peers. As an additional example, the Australian National University Medical School recently introduced a system in which students rate their peers in terms of personal and profes- sional performance. Students begin to provide anonymous ratings online at the end of their first year in medical school. The system allows students to share their assessment of their peers and provides faculty with early-warning signs to assist students who may not be performing up to personal or professional standards.19

Peer evaluations suffer from three problems, however. First, such evaluations may not be readily accepted when employees believe there is friendship bias at work. In other words, if an employee believes that ratings provided by his peers will be lower than those provided for another employee because the other employee has more friends than he does, then performance evaluations will not be taken seriously. It is not likely that the employee will use the feedback received to improve his performance. A second problem with peer evaluations is that peers are less discrimi- nating among performance dimensions than are supervisors. In other words, if one is rated high on one dimension, one is also likely to be rated high on all the other dimen- sions, even though the performance dimensions rated may not be related to one another and may require very different knowledge, skills, and abilities. Finally, peer evaluations are likely to be affected by what is called context effects.20 For example, consider the situation in which peers evaluate communication behaviors. The salience of such behaviors will be affected by context: these behaviors are much more salient when there is a conflict as compared to routine daily work. The resulting peer evalua- tions can thus be quite different based on whether the peer providing the rating is thinking about one specific situation versus another one, or communication behaviors across situations in general.

Given these weaknesses of peer evaluations, it would not be wise to use them as the sole source of performance information. Peer evaluations can be part of the system, but information should also be obtained from other sources, including the supervisor.
