# 1.5.6 Documentational Purpose

Finally, performance management systems allow organizations to collect useful information that can be used for several documentation purposes. First, performance data can be used to validate newly proposed selection instruments. For example, a newly developed test of computer literacy can be administered to all administrative personnel. Scores on the test can then be paired with scores collected through the performance management system. If scores on the test and on the performance meas- ure are correlated, then the test can be used with future applicants for the administrative positions. Second, performance management systems allow for the documentation of important administrative decisions. This information can be especially useful in the case of litigation.

Several companies implement performance management systems that allow them to accomplish the multiple objectives described earlier. For an example of one such company, consider the case of SELCO Credit Union (http://selco.org/selco/ about.asp) in Eugene, Oregon, a not-for-profit consumer cooperative that was estab- lished in 1936.41 SELCO’s eight branches serve nearly 80,000 members. SELCO offers many of the same services offered by other banks, including personal check- ing and savings accounts, loans, and credit cards. Being members of the credit union, however, allows individual members a say in how the credit union is run, something a traditional bank does not permit. Recently, SELCO scrapped an old performance appraisal system and replaced it with a new multipurpose and more effective performance management system. First, the timing of the new system is now aligned with the business cycle instead of the employee’s date of hire to ensure that business needs are aligned with individual goals. This alignment serves both strategic and informational purposes. Second, managers are given a pool of money that they can work with to award bonuses and raises as needed, which is more effective than the complex set of matrices that had been in place to calculate bonuses. This improved the way in which the system is used for allocating rewards and therefore serves an administrative purpose. Third, managers are required to sit down and have regular conversations with their employees about their perform- ance and make note of any problems that arise. This gives the employees a clear sense of areas in which they need improvement and provides documentation if disciplinary action is needed. This component serves both informational and docu- mentational purposes. Finally, the time that was previously spent filling out complicated