---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 09749d2bb88595788f02fee67126dfea73debc87
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Chapter 7 • Implementing a Performance Management System 187

- Overall cost/benefit ratio or return on investment (ROI). A fairly simple way to address the overall impact of the system is to ask participants to rate the overall cost/benefit ratio for the performance management system. This is a type of bottom-line question that can provide convincing evidence for the overall worth of the system. The cost/benefit ratio question can be asked in reference to an individual (employee or manager), her job, and her organizational unit.

- Unit-level and organization-level performance. Another indicator that the system is working well is provided by the measurement of unit- and organization-level performance. Such performance indicators might be customer satisfaction with specific units and indicators of the financial performance of the various units or the organization as a whole. We need to be aware that it may take some time for changes in individual and group performance level to be translated into unit- and organization-level results. We should not expect results as soon as the system is implemented; however, we should start to see some tangible results at the unit level a few months after the system is in place.

Consider the case of Caterpillar, which was founded in 1925, manufactures more than 300 products in 23 countries, and serves customers in 200 countries worldwide (http://www.cat.com). In their own words, Caterpillar’s “value advantage” is to “have the people, processes, tools and investments to deliver the quality, reliability and durabil- ity customers expect from Caterpillar in each new product introduction.” Given this value proposition, Caterpillar has a strategic view of how managers should manage and improve the performance of their people. As a result, the organization has had a perform- ance management system in place for many years. More recently, Caterpillar embarked on an impressive initiative to evaluate its performance management system. Specifically, the goal of this evaluation was to assess the cost/benefit ratio—return on investment (ROI)— of the training portions of the system that targeted managers and included modules about goal setting and coaching, among others. This evaluation included three steps. First, there was an estimated ROI based on how much performance management training would cost and its expected benefits. This information was used prior to implementing the program to establish the program’s business case. Second, there was an ROI forecast, which enabled the program’s leaders to better understand how to make full deployment of the initiative successful. Participants in this study completed a questionnaire in which they described the potential financial and nonfinancial effects of the program. Third, an ROI study was conducted three months after the performance management training intervention to learn about financial as well as non-tangible returns. This was done via focus groups that docu- mented both how training participants had used the knowledge they had acquired and how much the business impact and financial benefits that the performance management training seemed to generate. Finally, a follow-up study was conducted two months later to confirm the results of the third step. This final study included an online questionnaire com- pleted by the subordinates of the managers who had participated in the program. This final step provided cross-validation data from the perspective of subordinates.

Results were quite impressive. For example, results of the ROI study indicated that 88% of respondents believed the program had a positive impact on the organization, 53% reported that their personal productivity increased, 28% reported that product quality im- proved, and 33% reported that costs were reduced. The overall ROI was calculated as fol- lows: (Benefits (cid:3) Costs) / Costs) × 100. Benefits were annualized, treated as sustainable
