# Part III • Employee Development

meet expectations and standards. Coaching is also concerned with long-term per- formance and involves ensuring that the developmental plan is being achieved. Being a coach thus is similar to serving as a consultant and, for coaching to be successful, a coach must establish a helping relationship.4 Establishing this helping and trusting relationship is particularly important when the supervisor and subordinate do not share similar cultural backgrounds, as is often the case with expatriates or when implementing global performance management systems.5 In such situations, a help- ing and trusting relationship allows for what is labeled cultural transvergence in performance management, which means that cultural differences are discussed openly, and alternate practices, which enhance individual and team performance, are implemented.

Coaching is a pervasive organizational activity and, since the mid-1990s, there has been an explosion of interest in coaching. Specifically, the first scholarly article on coaching was published in 1955, and between then and December 2005, 393 articles have been published on the topic.6 Increased interest in recent years is evidenced by the fact that, of the total of 393 articles, 318 have been published since 1996. Although many theories on coaching exist, there are four guiding principles that provide a good framework for understanding successful coaching:7

- 1. A good coaching relationship is essential. For coaching to work, it is imperative that the relationship between the coach and the employee be trusting and collab- orative. As noted by Farr and Jacobs, the “collective trust” of all stakeholders in the process is necessary.8 To achieve this type of relationship, first the coach must listen in order to understand. In other words, the coach needs to try to walk in the employee’s shoes and view the job and organization from his or her perspective. Second, the coach needs to search for positive aspects of the employee because this is likely to lead to a better understanding and acceptance of the employee. Third, the coach needs to understand that coaching is not something done to the employee but done with the employee. Overall, the manager needs to coach with empathy and compassion. Such compassionate coaching will help develop a good relationship with the employee. In addition, there is an important personal benefit for the coach. This type of compassionate coaching has the potential to serve as an antidote to the chronic stress experi- enced by many managers.9 It has been argued that this type of coaching can ameliorate stress because the experience of compassion elicits responses within the human body that arouse the parasympathetic nervous system (PSNS), which can help mitigate stress.

- 2. The employee is the source and director of change. The coach must understand that the employee is the source of change and self-growth. After all, the purpose of coaching is to change employee behavior and set a direction for what the employee will do differently in the future.10 This type of change will not happen if the employee is not in the driver’s seat. Accordingly, the coach needs to facilitate the employee’s setting the agenda, goals, and direction.

- 3. The employee is whole and unique. The coach must understand that each employee is a unique individual with several job-related and job-unrelated identities (e.g., computer network specialist, father, skier) and a unique personal history. The coach must try to create a whole, complete, and rich picture of the