# PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT

Regardless of the extent to which a performance management system is concerned with individual performance, team performance, or both, the goals of the system are the same as those discussed in Chapter 1: strategic, administrative, informational, develop- mental, organizational maintenance, and documentational. In the specific case of a system concerned with team performance, one additional goal is to make all team members accountable so that they are motivated to have a stake in team performance. Many organizations have become more team based, but they have not changed their performance management systems to accommodate this new organizational reality, which presents a unique challenge. If the organization is based on teams but performance is still measured and rewarded at the individual level, team performance will suffer. In fact, some of the individual rewards may motivate people not to contribute to team performance and, instead, to focus on individual performance. In general, organizations that choose to include a team component in their performance management system must ask the following questions:

- How do we assess relative individual contribution? How do we know the extent to which particular individuals have contributed to team results? How much has one member contributed in relation to the other members? Are there any slackers or free riders on the team? Is everyone contributing to the same extent, or are some members covering up for the lack of contribution of others?

- How do we balance individual and team performance? How can we motivate team members so that they support a collective mission and collective goals? In addi- tion, how do we motivate team members to be accountable and responsible indi- vidually? In other words, how do we achieve a good balance between measuring and rewarding individual performance in relation to team performance?

- How do we identify individual and team measures of performance? How can we identify measures of performance that indicate individual performance versus measures of performance that indicate team performance? Where does individual performance end and team performance begin? Finally, based on these measures, how do we allocate rewards to individuals versus teams?

A study including structured interviews with 102 working adults in Hong Kong and another 96 working adults in the Pearl River Delta (i.e., cities of Chung-shan, Quang-zhou, and Zhu-hai) suggested that, indeed, organizations are faced with these challenging questions.7 For example, interview results indicated that about 38% of indi- viduals participated in systems based on individual performance only, whereas about