---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: dac682cf33af388777e46283cbecec6b4fd85158
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# Part II • System Implementation

benefits to the business, and one-time benefits were excluded, and were not treated at face value—rather, they included weighting factors. For example, assume a respondent who reported that his productivity increased 5 hours per week, his estimate of percentage of these hours saved due to the performance management training program was 60%, and his confidence in this estimate is 75%. If the hourly rate is estimated at $65 and we con- sider 48 weeks per year, then 5 hours × $65 × 48 = $15,600. This estimate was revised tak- ing into account the answers to the follow-up questions (i.e., hours due to performance management and confidence in the estimate). In other words, $15,600 × 60% × 75% = $7,020. This resulting dollar figure was added to the total benefits pool. Finally, costs in- cluded all those associated with the program including administration, communication, training design and delivery, evaluation, vendor fees, and so forth. What was the bottom line? The final calculation indicated an impressive ROI of 194%.33

Now, let’s return to the performance management system at the Washington State Patrol to examine how it evaluates effectiveness now that the system is implemented.34 The patrol has several measures in place for continual evaluation of the effectiveness of the program. First, before all employees are reviewed using the system, they are surveyed regarding their satisfaction with the new system. This input is then used to further improve the appraisal process. In addition, the patrol uses the results of a biyearly citizen’s survey conducted by Washington State University. The results of this survey are used to determine whether the state patrol’s customers are satisfied with its performance, and the data are also used to adjust and reprioritize performance objec- tives. In addition, the data are used to measure division-level performance, which is one indicator of the success of the performance management process. The Washington State Patrol collects other types of data as well. For example, every six months, division managers give presentations regarding performance management to their peers and to several executives. Initially, the meetings focused on efforts to implement the new per- formance management system and increase quality, but this will change as new issues arise. The presentation is 30–40 minutes long, followed by 20–30 minutes of questions from peers and executives. The feedback from these presentations is used to measure how well the system is being implemented, and feedback on the success of the meetings will be used to make any necessary changes to the system.

The Washington State Patrol may also want to consider measuring how many people are participating in the system. The patrol would also benefit from assessing whether the new system is distinguishing high- from low-level performers and benefit from ascertaining the overall cost/benefit ratio of implementing the system.
