---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ea6d858b67881df820f2647035dffa24fcf27361
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## 10.3 POSSIBLE PROBLEMS ASSOCIATED WITH CONTINGENT PAY PLANS

In spite of the potential positive impact of CP plans, we should be aware that not all CP plans work as intended. For example, in the 1990s, Hewlett Packard implemented CP plans in 13 separate sites; however, the plans were eventually abandoned in all but one. Hewlett Packard decided to abandon CP because the benefits did not outweigh the costs.15 Why is it that CP plans may not succeed? Consider the following reasons:16

- A poor performance management system is in place. What happens when a CP plan is paired with a poorly designed, poorly implemented performance management system, one that includes biased ratings and the measurement of unrelated performance dimensions? This situation may lead some employees to challenge the CP plan legally. Also, rewarding behaviors and results that are not job related is likely to cause good performers to leave the organization. Finally, those who stay are not likely to be motivated to perform well.

- There is the folly of rewarding Awhile hoping for B.17 What happens when the system rewards results and behaviors that are not those that will help the organization succeed? Employees are likely to engage in these often counterproductive behaviors when this behavior is what will earn them the desired rewards. One such example is the hope that executives will focus on long-term growth and environ- mental responsibility when, in fact, they are rewarded based on quarterly earnings. Given this situation, what are these executives likely to do? Will they think in the long term or quarter by quarter? A second example is an organization that would like its employees to be more entrepreneurial and innovative, but it does not reward employees who think creatively. What are employees likely to do? Will they be innovative and risk not getting rewards, or will they continue to do things the old way? Athird example is an organization that would like employees to focus on teamwork and a one-for-all spirit, but it rewards employees based on individual results. This happens in many professional sports teams. What are professional athletes likely to do? Will they pass the ball, or will they try to score themselves to improve their own individual statistics?

- Rewards are not considered significant. What happens when a CP plan includes pay increases and other rewards that are so small that they don’t differentiate between outstanding and poor performers? For example, what happens when the top performers receive a 5% pay increase and an average performer receives a 3% or 4% pay increase? In this context, rewards are not viewed as performance- based rewards, and they do not make an impact. The message sent to employees is that performance is not something worth being rewarded. For rewards to be meaningful, they need to be significant in the eyes of the employees. Usually, an increase of approximately 12%–15% of one’s salary is regarded as a meaningful reward and would motivate people to do things they would not do otherwise. • Managers are not accountable. What happens when managers are not account- able regarding how they handle the performance and the performance evalua- tion of their employees? They are likely to inflate ratings so that employees receive what the manager thinks are appropriate rewards. Similarly, employees
