data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1309.md, before:

# 7.6 ONGOING MONITORING AND EVALUATION

When the testing period is over and the performance management system has been implemented organization-wide, it is important to use clear measurements to monitor and evaluate the system.28 In a nutshell, a decision needs to be made about how to evalu- ate the system’s effectiveness, how to evaluate the extent to which the system is being implemented as planned, and how to evaluate the extent to which it is producing the intended results. The U.S. federal government takes the evaluation of performance management systems very seriously. Since the early 1990s, several laws have been passed that mandate federal agencies to develop a strategic plan, a performance plan, and a performance report.29 Although these initiatives concern agencies and not individuals, ultimately the performance of any agency depends on the performance of the individuals working in that agency. The net result of such laws as the Government Performance and Results Act is an increase in accountability and funding allocation based on performance. Thus, federal agencies are required to evaluate the relative efficiency of their various management techniques including performance management systems.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1309.md, after:

---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: fc518475dddf29a3423e0790ecdbc831f1f56ee8
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Performance Management System Rollout at BT Global Services

BT Global Services (http://www.btglobalservices.com) utilized several steps to effectively roll out a new performance management system called “Maximizing Performance,” designed to bring new consis- tency to managing and developing employees and to create a high-performance culture. BT Global Services, a global communication services company, employs more than 20,000 people. After obtain- ing support from senior management, the first steps included a series of communications, including a workshop for executives so that all employees would receive a clear message about why a new system was being developed, what roles employees would play, and how those roles would contribute to the success of the company. The next step included training line managers, to ensure involvement and commitment, including the important role these managers play in ensuring success. Among other areas covered, training included how to set effective goals with employees, providing coaching and feedback to facilitate development. Roles were reviewed and clarified to ensure employees understood expectations and how their work contributes to the success of their team, business unit, and the company as a whole. For ongoing monitoring of the program, data were collected through employee surveys, face-to-face meetings with line managers, and team meetings. In summary, BT Global Services illustrates an example of an effective rollout of a new performance management system including communication plan, training, and ongoing commitment to monitoring and improvement.27

The training also focused on how new developments in the patrol led to the new elements in the performance management system. During the training, the trainers encouraged the participants to ask questions regarding the shift to the new approach. The trainers then used the feedback received in these sessions to fix specific operational issues before intro- ducing the training to the entire agency. After the appraisal process was fine-tuned, it was submitted for the approval of the troopers’ and sergeants’ associations. Aselect number of individuals across the districts received “train the trainer” training. Finally, the system was instituted agency-wide. Each of these steps allowed for the identification of potential barriers that could have prevented the system from being successful.
