# Part II • System Implementation

- How does performance management relate to other initiatives and pro- grams such as training, promotion, and compensation?

Including detailed, convincing, and clear an- swers for each of these questions is likely to help increase support for the system.

- People have biases in how they take in and process information. Even though a good communication plan may be in place, these biases may distort the infor- mation presented. Biases to take into account are selective exposure, selective perception, and selective retention. Selective exposure is a tendency to expose our minds only to ideas with which we already agree. Selective per- ception is a tendency to perceive a piece of information as meaning what we would like it to mean even though the information, as intended by the commu- nicator, may mean the exact opposite. Finally, selective retention is a tendency to remember only those pieces of infor- mation with which we already agree. • The negative effects of cognitive biases can be minimized by involving em- ployees in system design, considering employees’ needs in designing and implementing the system, delivering the communication plan before negative at- titudes are established and rumors start circulating, putting information con- cerning the system in writing, providing facts and consequences and not just facts, using multiple channels of com- information munication to present about the system, using credible and powerful communicators, and repeating the information frequently. Agood com- munication plan includes as many of these features as possible.

- In addition to a communication plan, the establishment of an appeals process helps gain system acceptance. An appeals process allows employees to

understand that, if there is a disagree- ment regarding performance ratings or any resulting decisions, such disagree- ments can be resolved in an amicable and nonretaliatory way.

- The appeals process begins with an employee filing an appeal with the HR department, which serves as a mediator between the employee and her supervisor. This is a Level 1 appeal. If the appeal is not resolved, then an outside and unbi- ased arbitrator makes a final and binding resolution. This is a Level 2 appeal. The arbitrator for a Level 2 appeal is usually a panel that includes peers and managers. • In rating performance, raters may make intentional or unintentional errors. Inten- tional errors take place when raters believe it will be more beneficial to them to provide distorted instead of accurate ratings. For example, a super- visor may not want to give a low rating to avoid a possible confrontation with an employee. Intentional errors include leniency (giving better scores than warranted), severity (giving worse scores than warranted), and central tendency (giving scores only around the midpoint of the scales). Motivation is the key to minimize intentional errors. In other words, we must demonstrate to the raters that the benefits of providing accurate ratings outweigh the benefits of intentionally distorting ratings by inflation, deflation, or central tendency. The communication plan takes care of this by addressing the “What’s in it for me?” question, including the “What’s in for me if I provide accurate ratings?” question.

- Unintentional errors occur because observing, encoding, storing, and retrieving performance information is a complex cognitive task. Unintentional errors include the following: (1) similar to me, (2) contrast, (3) halo, (4) primacy, (5) recency, (6) negativity, (7) first