# Summary Points

- Appraisal forms are the key instruments used to measure performance. Care and attention are required to ensure that the forms include all the necessary compo- nents. Most forms include a combination of the following: (1) basic employee infor- mation; (2) accountabilities, objectives, and standards; (3) competencies and indi- cators; (4) major achievements and contri- butions; (5) developmental achievements; (6) developmental needs, plans, and goals; (7) stakeholder input; (8) employee comments; and (9) signatures. Note, how- ever, that one size does not fit all, and different components are appropriate based on the purposes of the appraisal. • Regardless of the specific components included in the appraisal form, there are several characteristics that make appraisal forms particularly effective. These are (1) simplicity, (2) relevancy, (3) descriptiveness, (4) adaptability, (5) comprehensiveness, (6) definitional clarity, (7) communication, and (8) time orientation. Before it is used, each form needs to be evaluated based on the extent to which it complies with each of these characteristics.

- For administrative purposes, it is usu- ally desirable to compute an employee’s overall performance score. Two ap- proaches are available: judgmental and mechanical. The judgmental procedure consists of considering every aspect of performance and then arriving at a fair and defensible summary. The mechani- cal procedure consists of combining the scores assigned to each performance dimension, usually taking into account the relative weight given to each dimension. The mechanical procedure is recommended over the judgmental procedure, which is more prone to biases. Rounding of overall scores can be implemented (upward or downward)