## Chapter 1 • Performance Management and Reward Systems in Context

- 2. Alignment with strategic goals. Performance management requires that managers ensure that employees’ activities and outputs are congruent with the organization’s goals and, consequently, help the organization gain a competitive advantage. Performance management therefore creates a direct link between employee performance and organizational goals and makes the employees’ contri- bution to the organization explicit.

Note that many organizations have what is labeled a “performance management” system. However, we must distinguish between performance management and performance appraisal. A system that involves employee evaluations once a year without an ongoing effort to provide feedback and coaching so that performance can be improved is not a true performance management system. Instead, this is only a performance appraisal system. Performance appraisal is the systematic description of an employee’s strengths and weaknesses. Thus, performance appraisal is an important component of performance management, but it is just a part of a bigger whole because performance management is much more than just performance measurement.2

As an illustration, consider how Merrill Lynch has transitioned from a perform- ance appraisal system to a performance management system. Merrill Lynch is one of the world’s leading financial management and advisory companies, with offices in 37 countries and private client assets of approximately US$ 1.6 trillion (http://ml.com/). As an investment bank, it is a leading global underwriter of debt and equity securities and strategic adviser to corporations, governments, institutions, and individuals world- wide. Recently, Merrill Lynch started the transition from giving employees one per- formance appraisal per year to focusing on one of the important principles of performance management: the conversation between managers and employees in which feedback is exchanged and coaching is given if needed. In January, employees and managers set employee objectives. Mid-year reviews assess what progress has been made toward the goals and how personal development plans are faring. Finally, the end-of-the-year review incorporates feedback from several sources, evaluates progress toward objectives, and identifies areas that need improvement. Managers also get extensive training on how to set objectives and conduct reviews. In addition, there is a Web site that managers can access with information on all aspects of the performance management system. In sharp contrast to its old performance appraisal system, Merrill Lynch’s goal for its newly implemented performance management program is worded as follows: “This is what is expected of you, this is how we’re going to help you in your development, and this is how you’ll be judged relative to compensation.”3

As a second example, consider the performance management system for managers at Germany-based Siemens, which provides mobile phones, computer networks, and wireless technology and employs 475,000 people in 190 countries (www.siemens.com). At Siemens, the performance management system is based on three pillars: setting clear and measurable goals, implementing concrete actions, and imposing rigorous consequences. The performance management at Siemens has helped change people’s mind-set, and the organization is now truly performance oriented. Every manager understands that performance is a critical aspect of working at Siemens, and this guiding philosophy is communicated in many ways throughout the organization.4

Performance management systems that do not make explicit the employee con- tribution to the organizational goals are not true performance management systems. Making an explicit link between an employee’s performance objectives and the