## Chapter 2 • Performance Management Process

The information obtained from a job analysis is used for writing a job description. Writing a job description may seem like a daunting task; however, it does not have to be difficult. Generic job descriptions can be obtained from the Occupational Informational Network (O*NET) (http://online.onetcenter.org/find/). O*NET is a comprehensive database of worker attributes and job characteristics that provides a common language for defining and describing occupations. The descriptions available via O*NET can serve as a foundation for a job description. O*NET descriptions can be easily adapted and changed to accommodate specific local characteristics. For example, see O*NET’s generic description for truck drivers in the box “Summary Report for Tractor-Trailer Truck Drivers” (from O*NET). First, the summary description can be checked for accu- racy and relevance by supervisors. Then, the list of KSAs provided by O*NET can be readily rated by incumbents (and additional KSAs may be added if needed).

O*NET can also be a very useful resource for small businesses because, for most of them, conducting a job analysis may not be feasible simply because there are not suffi- cient numbers of people from whom to collect data. In addition, O*NET can be used when organizations expand and new positions are created. One thing needs to be clear, however: jobs change. Thus, job descriptions must be checked for accuracy and updated as needed.

Job descriptions are a key prerequisite for any performance management system because they provide the criteria (i.e., yardsticks) that will be used in meas- uring performance. Such criteria may concern behaviors (i.e., how to perform) or results (i.e., what outcomes should result from performance). In our truck driver example, a behavioral criterion could involve the skill “equipment maintenance.” For example, a supervisor may rate the extent to which the employee “performs routine maintenance on equipment and determines when and what kind of mainte- nance is needed.” Regarding results, these criteria usually fall into one of the fol- lowing categories: (1) quality, (2) quantity, (3) cost-effectiveness, and (4) timeliness.8 In the truck driver example, results-oriented criteria can include number of acci- dents (i.e., quality) and amount of load transported over a specific period of time (i.e., quantity).

Some organizations are becoming aware of the importance of considering pre- requisites before implementing a performance management system. Take the case of Deaconess Hospital in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, which includes a workforce of 650 physicians and a total of 1,400 employees (http://www.deaconessokc.org/). Deaconess Hospital has been able to effectively integrate employees’ job descriptions within their performance management system. The need for this integration was rein- forced by results from an employee survey revealing that employees did not know what they were being evaluated on. Therefore, with the input of employees, the hospital updated each of the 260 job descriptions. At present, each employee’s job description is part of the performance review form. The new forms incorporate task performance standards as well as behaviors specific to individual jobs. For example, a nurse may be evaluated on “how well he or she safely, timely, and respectfully administers patient med- ication and on his or her planning and organization skills.” In addition, Deaconess Hospital has been able to link each employee’s performance to the strategy and goals of the organization. Specifically, all employees are rated on the following core behaviors con- sidered to be of top strategic importance for this particular organization: (1) adaptability, (2) building customer loyalty, (3) building trust, and (4) contributing to team success.9