---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b511c8211b7c61994587f4ee1fc2f70f44fddb3a
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# Part II • System Implementation

somewhere in between. This assumption, however, may not hold true for all units within an organization. Some units may have a high-performing culture and systems in place so that the majority of members perform at a very high level. Conversely, other units may have a majority of members who perform at a below-expectations level. In fact, in some professions such as researchers in universities, athletes in a variety of sports, actors and entertainers in a variety of industries, and politicians, job performance is rarely normally distributed.21 The pattern is such that a small minority of individuals account for the majority of results such as number of publications, goals, and how many times individu- als are re-elected into office. Another disadvantage of implementing a forced distribution system is that such a system may discourage employees from engaging in contextual performance behaviors. After all, some employees may think, “The better my colleague does, the smaller the chance that I will be rated at the top of the distribution, so why should I help her do her job?” Obviously, this can undermine teamwork and the goals of the organization; it is important to consider what the culture of the organization is before implementing this type of system. If there is a culture with an unhealthy level of compet- itiveness, then a forced distribution may produce an effect opposite to what is intended and create performance problems. Finally, a forced distribution system is very difficult to implement in an organization that is not experiencing any growth. This is especially true for an organization that is experiencing cutbacks. If it is the same group or, even worse, a smaller group being evaluated one year later, people who had been in the middle position are by default moved to the bottom, even if their performance has not changed. This is because the employees who were rated at the bottom previously are no longer with the organization. It is not easy for employees to understand why, given the same level of performance, they are now placed in the C instead of the B category. University of Southern California professor Ed Lawler gives a great example of a forced distribution system using a salamander as a comparison: the salamander’s tail grows back when you chop it off, but this doesn’t happen in companies. In companies, if a forced distribution system is used and a prespecified percentage of employees are let go every year because someone has to be placed in the C category, at some point you will be cutting into the “bone” of the organization. Computer simulations have confirmed that the benefits of implementing a forced distribution system in terms of performance improvement are most noticeable in the first several years of program implementation.22
