---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c8e79ca5d224be127efcea01ff5ebb6ba870cad2
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Chapter 8 • Performance Management and Employee Development

In this particular illustration, the manager believes that she displays behaviors indicating the competency “development of others” somewhere between “usually” and “always.” By contrast, her boss, employees, and peers believe that she demonstrates these behaviors somewhere between “seldom” and “sometimes.” In other words, the self-rating falls within the favorable zone whereas the ratings provided by others do not. To explore this gap further, the report provided to the manager also includes more detailed information on the scores provided by each source of information. The Reference Group Comparison chart included in Figure 8.3 shows this information. An examination of the scores provided for the competency “development of others” indicates that all sources, except for the manager herself, agree that work is needed regarding this compe- tency because all scores are between the “seldom” and “sometimes” categories. By contrast, the manager believes she is doing an exceptional job of cultivating individual talent (score of 5) and motivating successfully (score of 4).

It is not sufficient, however, just to provide scores regarding each of the competencies. Becoming aware that there is a problem with a competency is a very good first step, but a good 360-degree feedback system also provides concrete suggestions about what to do to improve competencies.18 The CheckPoint system does this by providing what is called a development summary. The development summary describes strengths and areas that should be developed further. An example of this is shown in Figure 8.4. According to the graph, this particular manager has several strengths but also some areas that deserve further develop- ment. For example, there is a need to work on the “facilitates team success” dimension of the competency “relationships.” The report also includes specific suggestions on how to improve this competency that are shown in Figure 8.5. Specifically, the manager is given tips and advice regarding concrete steps to be taken to improve performance. For example, in terms of learning to collaborate on team decisions, the manager is given advice about how to compromise and reach win-win decisions and how to gain support for decisions.

360-degree feedback systems are not necessarily beneficial for all individuals and organizations. For example, individuals who are high on self-efficacy (i.e., they believe they can perform any task) are more likely to improve their performance based on feedback received from peers compared to individuals low on self-efficacy.19 Also, the effect of receiving feedback from multiple sources is most beneficial for individuals who perceive there is a need to change their behavior, react positively to feedback, believe change is feasible, set appropriate goals to improve their performance, and take concrete actions that lead to performance improvement.20 On the other hand, indi- viduals who score lower on self-efficacy pay more attention to the feedback received from their line managers. In other words, an employee’s confidence in her own performance influences which sources of feedback are most useful to her.

In terms of organizational characteristics, 360-degree systems work best in organ- izations that have cultures that support open and honest feedback. Also, these systems work best in organizations that have a participatory, as opposed to authoritarian, leadership style in which giving and receiving feedback is the norm and is regarded as valuable. For example, consider the case of the Patent Office of the United Kingdom. This organization is characterized by a hierarchical structure typical of many civil serv- ice organizations as opposed to a flat structure where employees are involved and teamwork is the norm. The implementation of a 360-degree feedback system did not lead to the anticipated positive results, and there was a mismatch of expectations between what the board members wanted (i.e., better working relations and a culture
