---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f4eab16f05777c7be2dc631117dcd3315e02e949
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Chapter 10 • Reward Systems and Legal Issues

performance ratings or ratings based on individual performance because this would single out individuals. Instead, systems that measure and reward team performance may be more appropriate in collectivistic cultures (these are discussed in detail in Chapter 11). It is possible, however, to move away from more traditional systems based mainly on seniority by establishing clear links between performance management and other functions such as training, as described in Chapter 1. When such links have been clearly established, employees are more likely to see the benefits of the performance management system and believe that the system is fair.

Contingent pay (CP), also called pay for performance, means that individuals are rewarded based on how well they perform on the job. Thus, employees receive increases in pay based wholly or partly on job performance. These increases can either be added to an employee’s base salary or be a one-time bonus (see Chapter 1 for a description of different forms of compensation). When increases are not added to an employee’s base salary, as in the case of one-time bonuses, they are called variable pay. Originally, CP plans were used only for top management. Gradually, the use of CP plans extended to sales jobs. Currently, CP plans are more pervasive. For example, in 2001, 70% of workers in the United States were employed by organizations implementing some type of variable pay plan, and many of these organizations tie variable pay (e.g., bonus, commission, cash award, lump sum) directly to performance. Similarly, a study of human resources (HR) practices worldwide found that organizations in Canada, Latin America, Taiwan, and the United States generally emphasize the link between performance and pay.3 Finally, even universities, which typically have traditional organizational cultures for which pay for performance can be quite a foreign concept, are adopting CP plans for their staff. For example, results of a survey of 129 higher education institutions in the United Kingdom revealed that 77% of universities are using some type of CP plan and only 6% of universities have decided not to implement such plans.4

Let’s return to the example of salaries for university professors. When a CP plan is implemented, pay raises are determined in part or wholly based on performance. For example, two assistant professors may be hired at the same time at the same salary level (e.g., $75,000). If one of them outperforms the other year after year for several years, then eventually the better performing assistant professor may make $110,000, which may be a higher level of pay than most associate professors make. This is because every year this assistant professor receives a substantial salary increase, part of which may be added to the base salary, based on her outstanding teaching and research performance. On the other hand, the other assistant professor may still be making the same amount, or close to the same amount, he was making when he was first hired. Under a tradi- tional pay plan, an assistant professor would not receive a higher salary than most asso- ciate professors. Under such a plan, the assistant professor would have to be promoted to associate professor before she could receive a salary of $110,000, which is outside the traditional range for assistant professors.
