data/clean/performance_management__chunk0010.md, before:

# 78 ORGANIZATIONAL DYNAMICS

istrative decisions. As Donald Petersen, a former CEO of Ford Motor Company has noted, the emphasis on goal attainment is ironically a weakness of MBO. When receiv- ing a ‘‘good’’ appraisal is contingent on goal attainment, ingenious ways are often found by employees to make easy goals appear difﬁcult to administrative decision makers. Moreover, a focus on bottom-line measures is of little help in planning for and receiving training and development opportunities. They tell the ‘‘score,’’ but not what can be done to improve it. Dissatisfaction with this aspect of MBO can erode the employees’ belief in the fairness of the appraisal process. In short, the limitations of economic or bottom-line measures for appraisal purposes are at least ﬁve-fold. First, cost-related mea- sures are often affected by factors beyond a person’s control (e.g., lack of resources, situa- tional constraints). Hence people can be pro- moted or penalized undeservedly. To the extent that situational factors constrain per- formance outcomes, the focus needs to be on the person’s behavior, or their motivation level decreases dramatically. Second, bot- tom-line measures often do not take into account factors for which the person should be held accountable (e.g., team playing skills, creating seamless boundaries within the organization). Credit needs to be given to an individual for excelling on important non- quantitative aspects of his or her job. Third, bottom-line measures can foster a results-at- all-costs mentality, which in turn can lead to unethical, if not illegal, activity. Fourth, bot- tom-line measures yield little or no informa- tion on what the person must continue doing, start doing, stop doing, or do differently to impact the bottom-line positively. Telling a middle manager, for example, that there is a cost overrun is of little value. What the man- ager needs to know, and what an effective coach needs to explain to the manager, are ways to work effectively within budget. Finally,comprehensivebottom-line measures do not exist for the individual employee in most jobs.

Trait-based scales are often used to assess attitudinal and personality variables

such as commitment, creativity, loyalty, and initiative. However, unless traits are deﬁned behaviorally, they are too vague, subjective, and ambiguous. The appraisal reﬂects little more than the caprice of the appraiser. As is the case with bottom-line measures, trait- based assessments provide little insight into what the employee should start, stop or con- sider doing differently. For this reason, the courts usually take a dim view of these types of appraisal instruments. The solution is to measure and coach a person on observable behaviors required to implement an organi- zation’s strategy, which in turn increases the bottom-line.

Behaviorally based scales reduce ambi- guity by setting common expectations that make explicit what the person should start or stop doing. These types of measures account for more job complexity, relate directly to what the employee does, and mini- mize irrelevant factors that are not under the control of the individual. Behavioral criteria, developed from a job analysis, make clear what one must do to be productive, and what one must do to implement the strategy. As Colin Powell has argued, plans do not accom- plish anything: strategy is only as good as its execution. All the great ideas and visions in the world are worthless, argued Powell, if they cannot be implemented effectively and efﬁciently. Behavioral measures specify ways to execute an organization’s strategic plan.

The steps to follow in developing an effective appraisal plan for coaching pur- poses are six-fold. Employees must be assessed and coached on behaviors that are: (1) observable; (2) under their control; and (3) critical to the implementation of the organization’s strategy. Too often, the results of months of strategic planning are the stra- tegic document disappearing into a desk- drawer to be subsequently ignored for the remainder of the ﬁscal year. Of particular importance for perceptions of fairness is that (4) appraisal accuracy increases when both the coach and employee are informed ahead of time about what is to be observed. This foresight focuses the attention of both parties facilitates on pertinent behaviors, and it

recall when making administrative and developmental decisions.

In developing a behaviorally based appraisal instrument, (5) longer, objective, descriptive behavioral statements on the appraisal instrument are more effective than short phrases in increasing the appraiser’s accuracy. Finally, (6) keeping a written record during appraisal periods of the spe- ciﬁc behaviors that were observed improves the appraiser’s recall, and hence contributes to an objective appraisal and working pro- cess.

Behavioral observation scales facilitate performance identiﬁcation of training needs, and setting of speciﬁc perfor- mance goals. Behavioral measures tied to the organization’s strategy correlate signiﬁcantly with cost-related measures such as revenue, repeat business, and customer satisfaction. Hence, they serve as a diagnostic instrument.

feedback,

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/performance_management__chunk0010.md, after:

---
source_path: performance_management.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9b9bd13a477804e4d53779d45657f41374c43942
title: performance_management
---
# THE APPRAISAL INSTRUMENT

The appraisal instrument is the foundation for appraising and coaching employees. It is the basis for making administrative decisions in a uniform and consistent way. As noted earlier, a primary reason for the frequent fail- ure of a performance appraisal to bring about apositivechangeinaperson’sbehavioristhat many employeesview theinstrumentasmea- suring the ‘‘wrong things.’’ Designing the ‘‘right’’ performance appraisal instrument improves both the accuracy of the instrument and employee perceptions of fairness. The most frequently used instruments for asses- sing employees are bottom-line measures, trait-based scales, and behavioral scales.

Bottom-line measures often take the form of management by objectives (MBO). This approach emphasizes issues such as: Were X, Y, and Z goals attained? Were they attained on time? Was the quality satisfac- tory? The relevance of such questions is dif- ﬁcult to attack, as they appear to be objective. The probability that two or more appraisers will independently reach the same conclu- sion regarding a person’s performance is relatively high. For example, the person either did or did not decrease costs by 14%. Nevertheless, MBO leaves much to be desired when used as the primary basis for coaching an employee, or for making admin-
