---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7722986ba10f555db7ce704305f16f3762f3241f
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# 8.2 DIRECT SUPERVISOR’S ROLE

The direct supervisor or line manager has an important role in the creation and comple- tion of the employee’s developmental plan. Because of the pivotal role of the direct supervisor in the employee development process, it is a good idea for the supervisor to have her own development plan. This will help the supervisor understand the process from the employee’s perspective, anticipate potential roadblocks and defensive attitudes, and create a plan in a collaborative fashion.7

First, the supervisor needs to explain what would be required for the employee to achieve the desired performance level, including the steps that an employee must take to improve her performance. This information needs to be provided together with information on the probability of success if the employee completes the suggested steps. A good tool that supervisors can use to accomplish this goal is to use the feedforward interview (FFI). The goal of the FFI is to understand the types of behaviors and skills that individuals have that allow them to perform well and to think about ways to use these same behaviors and skills in other contexts to make further improve- ments in the future. The FFI includes a meeting between the supervisor and employee and involves the following three steps:8

- 1. Eliciting a success story. The supervisor sets the stage as follows: “All of us have both negative and positive experiences at work. I would like to meet with you to discuss some positives aspects only and see how we can learn from those experiences about things that work well.” Then, the supervisor can ask, “Could you please tell me about a story about an event or experience at work during which you felt at your best, full of life and in flow, and you were content even before the results of your actions were known?” It is important that the story be very specific about an actual incident and not a general statement about “In general, these are the things I do at work . . .” So, the story must be situated within a specific context. After the supervisor hears the story, he or she can summarize it for the employee to hear it, and then the supervisor can ask whether any information is missing or anything else should be added to the story. A follow-up question is, “Would you be happy to experience a similar process again?” If the answer is in the affirmative, then the subsequent ques- tions attempt to go deeper into the details of the story. If the story is associated with mixed feelings and is not completely positive, then a different story must be elicited.

- 2. Uncover the underlying success factors. The second step involves understand- ing the factors that led to the successful story. For example, the supervisor can ask, “What were some of the things you did or did not do, such as your specific personal strengths and capabilities, that made this success story
