## Chapter 6 • Gathering Performance Information

based on the information included in the “comments” section of the appraisal forms. However, for this to happen, there must be a systematic analysis of this text-based information and raters must be provided clear guidelines regarding what to include in these “comments” sections.

- It is recommended that the period for review be six months (i.e., semiannual) or three months (i.e., quarterly). This provides fairly frequent opportunities for a formal discussion about perform- ance issues between the subordinate and the supervisor. It is more conven- ient if the completion of the appraisal form coincides with the fiscal year so that rewards can be allocated shortly after the employee has received his or her performance review.

- Performance management systems can include up to six separate formal meet- ings between the supervisor and the subordinate: (1) system inauguration, (2) self-appraisal, (3) classical perform- ance review, (4) merit/salary review, (5) development plan, and (6) objective setting. In practice, these meetings are usually condensed into two or so meet- ings during each review cycle. One point that should be emphasized is that these are formal meetings. Informal meetings involving a discussion of per- formance issues should take place on an ongoing basis.

- Several sources can be used to obtain performance information: supervisors, peers, subordinates, self, and customers. Before selecting a source, one needs to be sure that the source has firsthand knowledge of the employee’s perform- ance. Using each of these sources has advantages and disadvantages, none of which are foolproof, and not all may be available in all situations. However, it is