## Managing Performance of Volunteer and Virtual Teams at Wikipedia

Wikipedia (http://www.wikipedia.com) is a free online encyclopedia that any Internet user can edit. The encyclopedia is available in several languages and has over 1.2 million entries in the English language version. Wikipedia is run by the Wikimedia Foundation, a nonprofit organization with only four employees; however, the Web site has more than 75,000 volunteers who contribute to the content. The organization has tackled the question of how to manage the performance of this large, virtual, and volunteer community. Several steps are taken in order to maintain the Web site in a way that allows readers to contribute and make edits. First, volunteers monitor one another. If an entry is made on a given page that a volunteer previously worked on, volunteers are immedi- ately alerted so that they can review the new entry. Edits are also traced directly and openly to the person who made the edit. Others can correct errors, and the software allows simple reversals of any errors to be made. Any discussion between volunteers is also easily retrievable so that others can read about any disagreement or questions. Second, the organization has policies that request all users to treat one another in a civil manner, and it is possible to be banished from making entries on the site. Volunteers are encouraged to work out disagreements. If that fails, an established escalation and dispute-resolution process can be enacted which includes a process of appeals with arbitration or mediation. In summary, Wikipedia provides an example of how an organization utilizes policies and procedures to manage the performance of a virtual, volunteer workforce.24