---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 63c7684922a6faf3344bb2753d1cf40cfa57a923
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# 7.5 PILOT TESTING

Before the performance management system is implemented formally, it is a good idea to test a version of the entire system so that adjustments and revisions can be made as needed.25 In the pilot test of the system, evaluations are not recorded in employee files; however, the system is implemented in its entirety from beginning to end, including all the steps that would be included if the system had actually been implemented. In other words, meetings take place between supervisor and employee, performance data are gathered, developmental plans are designed, and feedback is provided. The most impor- tant aspect of the pilot test is that all participants maintain records noting any difficulties they encountered, ranging from problems with the appraisal form and how performance is measured to the feedback received. The pilot test allows for the identification and early correction of any flaws before the system is implemented throughout the organization. We should not assume that the performance management system will necessarily be executed or that it will produce the anticipated results. The pilot test allows us to gain information from the perspective of the system’s users on how well the system works, to learn about any difficulties and unforeseen obstacles, to collect recommenda- tions on how to improve all aspects of the system, and to understand personal reactions to it. In addition, conducting a pilot test is yet another way to achieve early acceptance from a small group who can then act as champions for the performance management system, rather than putting the burden on the HR department to sell the idea. A final reason for conducting a pilot test is that end users are likely to have a higher system acceptance rate knowing that stakeholders in the company had a say in its design, rather than feeling that the system was created by the HR department alone.

An important decision to be made is the selection of the group of employees with whom the system will be tested. In choosing this group, we need to understand that the managers who will be participating should be willing to invest the resources required to do the pilot test. In addition, this group should be made up of managers who are flexi- ble and willing to try new things. Thus, managers should know what the system will look like and receive a realistic preview before they decide to participate in the pilot test. In selecting the group, we must also consider that the group should be sufficiently large and representative of the entire organization so that reactions from the group will be generalizable to the rest of the organization. Thus, in selecting the group, we should select jobs that are similar to those throughout the company, and the group selected should not be an exception in either a positive or a negative way. Specifically, the group should not be regarded as particularly productive, loose, hardworking, lazy, and so forth. Pilot tests provide crucial information to be used in improving the system before it is actually put in place. Pilot testing the system can provide huge savings and identify potential problems before they become irreversible and the credibility of the system is ruined permanently. For example, consider the case of the Washington State Patrol.26 In 1997, the organization realized that several changes were occurring in its department as well as in patrol departments in other states, thereby prompting the revision of its per- formance management system. It established a committee to develop the new appraisals. Before implementing the system, the state patrol pilot tested it in two districts. First, the committee prepared a training chapter that included a preappraisal work group meeting. In this meeting, employees discussed their roles and expectations surrounding the performance management system and applied those discussions to a common goal.
