# Part III • Employee Development

supervisor and the subordinate do not share similar cultural backgrounds.

- Managers need to engage in a complex set of behaviors to perform the various coaching functions. These include the fol- lowing: establish developmental objec- tives, communicate effectively, motivate employees, document performance, give feedback, diagnose performance prob- lems, and develop employees.

- Managers’ personalities and behav- ioral preferences determine their coaching style. Some managers prefer to be drivers and just tell employees what to do. Others prefer to be per- suaders and try to sell what they want the employees to do. Yet others adopt an amiable style in which feelings take precedence and urge the employee to do what feels right or what the employee feels is the right way to do things. Finally, others prefer to be ana- lyzers and have a tendency to follow rules and procedures in recommend- ing how to perform. None of these four styles is necessarily better than the oth- ers. The best coaches are able to change their styles and adapt to the needs of the employees.

- The coaching process is ongoing and cyclical, and it includes the following five components: (1) setting developmental goals, (2) identifying the resources and strategies needed to achieve the devel- opmental goals (e.g., securing resources that will allow employees to engage in activities to achieve their developmental goals), (3) implementing strategies (e.g., enrolling the employee in an online course), (4) observing and documenting developmental behaviors (e.g., checking on the progress of the employee toward the attainment of his developmental goals), and (5) giving feedback (e.g., pro- viding information to the employee that will help him adjust his current develop- mental goals and guide his future goals).

- Observing and documenting per- formance in general and performance regarding developmental goals in par- ticular are not as easy as it may seem. Time constraints can play a role when managers are too busy to gather performance information. Situational constraints may prevent managers from observing the employee directly. Finally, activity constraints may be a factor; when developmental activities are unstructured, such as reading a book, the manager may have to wait until the activity is completed to assess whether any new skills and knowledge have been acquired.

- Observation and documentation of performance can be improved in sev- eral ways. These issues, which were described in detail in Chapter 7, include implementing a good commu- nication plan that managers accept and establishing training programs that help managers minimize rater errors (i.e., rater error training); share notions of what it means to complete develop- mental activities successfully (i.e., frame-of-reference training); observe performance more accurately (i.e., behavioral observation training); and become more confident about manag- ing employee performance (i.e., self- leadership training).

- Documenting an employee’s progress toward achieving developmental goals and improving performance in general has several important benefits. These include the reduction of the manager’s cognitive load, the enhancement of trust between the employee and the manager, the collection of important input to be used in planning developmental activi- ties in the future, and the development of a good line of defense in case of litigation. • For documentation to be most useful, it must be specific, use adjectives and adverbs sparingly, balance positives

with negatives, focus on job-related information, be comprehensive, be standardized across employees, and be stated in behavioral terms.

- Feedback about performance in general and about developmental activities in particular serves several important pur- poses. These include building employee confidence, developing employee com- petence, and enhancing employee involvement with the unit and the organization as a whole.

- The mere presence of feedback does not mean that there will be positive effects on future performance. For feedback to be most useful, it must be timely, fre- quent, specific, verifiable, consistent over time and across employees, given in private, and tied closely to conse- quences rewards); address description first and evaluation second; discuss performance in terms of a con- tinuum and not in terms of dichotomies (i.e., more and less and not all or noth- ing); address patterns of behavior and not isolated events; include a statement that the manager has confidence in the employee; and include the active par- ticipation of the employee in gen- erating ideas about how to improve performance in the future.

(e.g.,

- In general, managers do not feel com- fortable about giving negative feedback. They may fear that employees will react negatively because they themselves have been given negative feedback in the past in a way that was not helpful and do not want to put their employees in the same situation, because they don’t like playing god, or because they think they need to collect an onerous amount of informa- tion and evidence before giving negative feedback. When negative feedback is warranted, however, and managers refuse to give it, poor performers may get the message that their performance is not that bad. Eventually, the situation