---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f480ce57906e3979abbed67e069cd4ce553e582c
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# Part II • System Implementation

their performance. This employee may even send an e-mail message to all members of her team and to her supervisor including suggestions for improvement based on proven practices directly observed elsewhere. Some of these suggestions may not be applicable in the new organizational environment due to different equipment, processes, products, and clients. However, others, if implemented, may produce immediate and highly beneficial results. Although such type of behavior can be included as part of the broader category of contextual behavior, it is different in that it is not conformist in nature. In fact, voice behavior can be seen as a threat by the new employee’s supervisor who is used to “doing things the same way we’ve done them before.” Such supervisors may perceive the suggestions for changes and improvements as a threat to the status quo. Moreover, more senior organizational members may also feel personally threatened by the knowledge, energy, and innovative ideas of the new employee. These reactions to voice behavior can be a sign that the wrong people are occupying leadership positions in the organization and a sign of imminent organizational decline.15 On the other hand, healthier organizational environments that are more adaptive and promote innovation and improvements are more receptive to voice behavior and even reward it. For example, a recent study found that, although voice behavior was not explicitly included as part of a performance management system, raters gave higher performance scores to employees who engaged in voice behavior in spite of similarities regarding task and contextual performance ratings.16

As in other sections throughout the book, it is important to understand contextual factors and how they affect how different organizations choose to define and measure performance. For example, consider the important role that cultural differences can play in this regard.17 Organizations in the United States are likely to value behaviors that are individualistic in nature and that demonstrate individual achievement, self-reliance, competition, and disengaged emotional styles. In such organizations, individuals from ethnic minority groups who align themselves with more collectivistic values may receive lower performance ratings compared to members of the majority group and may be seen as helpless, dependent, and lacking sufficient commitment to their work and organizations. This is another important reason for including both task and contextual performance in the system so that all organizational members are given an opportunity to demonstrate their value-added to the organization regardless of different behaviors, styles, and cultural values and norms.

In short, performance includes both a task and a contextual dimension. Both should be considered because both dimensions contribute to organizational success. In the case of both task and contextual performance, each behavior should be defined clearly so that employees understand what is expected of them. Organizations that include both task and contextual dimensions are likely to be more successful, as in the case of O2 Ireland, Ireland’s second largest mobile phone operator. Headquartered in Dublin, O2 Ireland employs more than 1,750 people. In 2000, O2 Ireland implemented a performance management system in its 320-seat customer care center in Limerick. O2’s performance management system includes task-related facets centered in hard metrics regarding productivity as well as contextual-related facets such as involvement in staff socialization and contribution to team development. The targets set for each employee are also aligned with company objectives. O2 concluded that this focus on both task and contextual performance has led to higher levels of customer service and employee satisfaction.
