## Chapter 7 • Implementing a Performance Management System 179

the opposite of the primacy error: raters are more heavily influenced by behaviors taking place toward the end of the review period instead of giving equal importance and paying attention to incidents occurring throughout the entire review period. • Negativity error. Negativity error occurs when raters place more weight on negative information than on positive and neutral information. For example, a rater may have observed one negative interaction between the employee and a customer and several positive interactions in which customers’ expectations were surpassed. The rater may focus on the one negative incident in rating the “customer service” dimension. The negativity error explains why most people have a tendency to remember nega- tive rather than positive news that they read in the newspaper or watch on television. • First impression error. First impression error occurs when raters make an initial favorable or unfavorable judgment about an employee and then ignore subse- quent information that does not support the initial impression. This type of error can be confounded with the “similar-to-me error” because first impressions are likely to be based on the degree of similarity: the more similar the person is to the supervisor, the more positive the first impression will be.

- Spillover error. Spillover error occurs when scores from previous review periods unjustly influence current ratings. For example, a supervisor makes the assumption that an employee who was an excellent performer in the previous period ought to be an excellent performer also during the current period and provides performance ratings consistent with this belief.

- Stereotype error. Stereotype error occurs when a supervisor has an oversimplified view of individuals based on group membership. That is, a supervisor may have a belief that certain groups of employees (e.g., women) are unassertive in their commu- nication style. In rating women, therefore, he may automatically describe communica- tion as being “unassertive” without actually having any behavioral evidence to support the rating.13 This type of error can also lead to biased evaluations of perform- ance when an individual (e.g., woman) violates stereotypical norms by working in an occupation that does not fit the stereotype (e.g., assembly of airplane parts).14 This type of error can also result in consistently lower performance ratings for members of certain groups. For example, a study including an identical sample of black and white workers found that white supervisors gave higher ratings to white workers relative to black workers than did black supervisors. In other words, if a white worker is rated, then it does not really matter whether the supervisor is black or white; however, if a black worker is rated, the supervisor’s ethnicity matters because this worker is likely to receive a higher rating from a black supervisor than from a white supervisor.15 • Attribution error. The attribution error takes place when a supervisor attributes poor performance to an employee’s dispositional tendencies (e.g., personality, abilities) instead of features of the situation (e.g., malfunctioning equipment). In other words, different supervisors may place different relative importance on the environment in which the employee works in making performance evaluations. If supervisors make incorrect inferences about the employees’ dispositions and ignore situational charac- teristics, actions taken to improve performance may fail because the same situational constraints may still be present (e.g., obsolete equipment).16 Table 7.3 includes a summary list of possible errors that raters may make in assigning

performance ratings. These errors can be classified as intentional or unintentional.