# Training the Raters at Big Quality Care

Founded near the city of Caesarea, Israel, Big Quality Care Center is a big nursing home facility for the elderly. Because of the sheer size and diverse range of occupants served, the Center predominantly relies on very highly skilled nursing professionals. Because Caesarea has had a long-term shortage of quality nursing professionals, the Center has some of the state-of-the-art HR practices to both retain and maximize the performance of the Center’s nurses.

Recently, however, you have received several anonymous complaints from the nursing staff that many ratings seemed inaccurate and inconsistent. Concerned that the Center may lose many of its quality nurses to competitors if the complaints are left unaddressed, the head of HR at the Center has decided to implement an organization-wide rater training program to appease the nurses and to correct for any

true rater inaccuracies and inconsistencies. Luckily for you, the head of HR has gathered enough trust with you that she has decided to let you design the rater-training program. But before letting you do so, she wants you to organize and deliver a presentation about the overview and details of your recommended training program during a meeting where the CEO and all the department heads will attend. Although you are somewhat nervous and scared, you soon regain your confidence and comfort level when you find out that you had kept a copy of a textbook called “Performance Management.” Using the information in Section 7.4, Training Programs for the Acquisition of Required Skills, create a presentation with 15–25 slides that communicate (i) a brief explanation of the nature of your suggested rater training program; (ii) its advantages; and (iii) its requirements. (cid:2)