## Chapter 10 • Reward Systems and Legal Issues

- Status indicators, such as a new and enhanced job title, larger work area, improved office decoration (e.g., prints, flowers), promotion, ability to super- vise more people, and newer or more equipment

- Time, such as taking a longer break, leaving work earlier, and getting time off with or without pay

- A more challenging work environment, responsibility, and freedom • Sabbaticals (i.e., paid time off work to devote to job-related growth and devel- opment activities such as learning new skills or traveling abroad)

Because so many organizations underestimate the value and impact of nonfinancial rewards, they use the phrase “rewards and recognition” to mean that rewards are financial and meaningful, whereas recognition is nonfinancial and not as meaningful. As noted above, we must put pay in context, and understand that pay is important, but people go to work for other reasons as well. One advantage of nonfinancial rewards is that they are typically allocated following the recommendations provided here for making rewards work in general. That is, nonfinancial rewards are usually available (there is an unlimited supply of praise); all employees are usually eligible; and nonfinancial rewards are visible and contingent, usually timely, and certainly reversible. But do they work? Fortunately, the answer is yes. For example, think about the following professions and what they have in common: teachers, soldiers, sailors, police officers, nurses, and volunteer workers in not-for-profit organizations. They all involve nonfinancial rewards including challenge, responsibility, and interesting and meaningful work. The financial rewards for doing these jobs are not very high or nonexistent. In spite of this, people in these professions tend to be highly motivated to do their jobs well.

In sum, the concept of a reward is broader than just pay. Of course, money allows people to do great many things, and people do incredible things to get more and more out of it. For rewards to be effective, however, they must motivate employees to become, or continue to be, excellent performers. Pay can do this if it is allocated based on the recommendations listed in Table 10.3. We should not forget that people go to work for reasons other than money. If an organization is trying to solve performance problems by focusing on money only, one result is expected for sure: The organization will spend a lot of money. It is not always clear that anything will change unless rewards are given taking into account the recommendations listed in Table 10.3.