---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 99d04019e3664c0f5c77aefad804634511e927ee
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## 6.4 APPRAISAL PERIOD AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS

How long should the appraisal period be? In other words, what period of time should be included in the appraisal form? Organizations with a performance management system typically conduct an annual review; however, others choose to conduct semiannual or even quarterly formal reviews. Conducting only an annual review might not provide sufficient opportunity for the supervisor and subordinate to discuss performance issues in a formal setting. The recommendation then is to conduct semiannual or quarterly reviews. For example, Colorado-based Hamilton Standard Commercial Aircraft uses a semiannual review system.9 Twice a year, the company performs a modified 360-degree appraisal, meaning that performance information is collected from several sources. This type of system allows individuals to receive feedback and adjust goals or objectives if necessary in preparation for the more in-depth annual review. An example of a company implementing quarterly reviews is Synygy, Inc., a Philadelphia-based compensation software and services company.10 Each quarter, employees receive a summary of comments and specific examples from coworkers about how they are performing. Synygy states that the goal of the system is to encourage open communication. Employees are trained to write effective comments to their coworkers to facilitate growth by pointing out positive and negative areas of performance. In areas that need improvement, coworkers are encouraged to sug- gest ways in which an employee could improve his or her performance.

When is the best time to complete the reviews? Most organizations adopt one of two possibilities. First, the appraisal form could be completed on or around the annual anniver- sary date. In the case of semiannual reviews, the first review would be six months before the annual anniversary date and the second review would be on or around the anniversary date. The biggest advantage of this choice is that the supervisor does not have to fill out everyone’s forms at one time. The disadvantage of this choice is that, because results are not tied to a common cycle for all employees, resulting rewards cannot be tied to the fiscal year. The second choice is to complete the appraisal forms toward the end of the fiscal year. In the case of a system including semiannual reviews, one review would be completed halfway through the fiscal year and the other one toward the end of the fiscal year. Adopting this approach leads to the completion of the appraisal form for all employees at about the same time, thereby facilitating cross-employee comparisons as well as the distribution of rewards. An additional advantage of following the fiscal year cycle is that individual goal setting can be more easily tied to corporate goal setting because most companies align their goal cycle with their fiscal year. This helps employees synchronize their work and objectives with those of their unit and organization. But what about the additional work imposed on the supervisors who need to evaluate all employees at once during a short period of time? This can be a major problem if the performance management system is not implemented using the best practices described in this book and performance appraisal is a once-a-year event. If there is ongoing commu- nication between the supervisor and the employee about performance issues throughout the year, completing appraisal forms should not uncover any major surprises and filling out the appraisal form should not create a major time burden for the supervisors.
