data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1085.md, before:

## Chapter 6 • Gathering Performance Information

within her unit, and communicating that performance management is a key part of a supervisor’s job. Also, supervisors need to have tools available to make their job of providing accurate ratings and feedback easier. This includes training on, for example, how to conduct the appraisal interview so that supervisors are able to provide both positive and negative feedback and are skilled at conveying both positive and, negative news regarding performance.

In addition to conscious and intentional errors in the rating process, raters are likely to make unintended errors. Observing information about performance, storing this information in memory, and then recalling it when it is time to fill out the appraisal form is a complex task. This task becomes more complex with more complex jobs that include several unrelated performance dimensions. Because of the cognitive complexity of the performance evaluation process, raters are likely to make not only intentional but also unintentional errors in evaluating performance. These errors are discussed in detail in Chapter 7. To a large extent, these errors can be minimized by improving the skills of those responsible for providing performance evaluations. These training programs, which target mostly supervisors, are discussed next.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1085.md, after:

---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5ace0c14c170e15c64a9a31a74782070604e4a05
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# Part II • System Implementation

- Send a message to the employee that he should consider leaving. A supervisor lacking communication skills may wish to convey the idea that an employee should leave the unit or organization. Providing deflated performance ratings may be seen as a way to communicate this message.

- Build a strongly documented, written record of poor performance. A supervisor may wish to get rid of a particular employee and decides that the best way to do this is to create a paper trail of substandard performance.

We can also understand the psychological mechanisms underlying the decision to provide deflated ratings. For example, if shocking employees and building strongly documented records about employees are considered to be positive consequences of rating deflation, it is likely that the supervisor will choose to provide distorted ratings. Fundamentally, this discussion should allow us to see that the process of evaluating performance can be filled with emotional overtones and hidden agendas that are driven by the goals and motivation of the person providing the rating.40 If raters are not motivated to provide accurate ratings, they are likely to use the performance manage- ment system to achieve political and other goals, such as rewarding allies and punishing enemies or competitors, instead of using it as a tool to improve employee and, ultimately, organizational performance.41 Thus, it is important to understand the influence of context on the accuracy of performance ratings and be aware that performance measurement does not take place in a vacuum, but in an organizational context with written and unwritten norms.42

What can be done to prevent conscious distortion of ratings? Considering a model of rater motivation, we need to provide incentives so that raters will be convinced that they have more to gain by providing accurate ratings than they do by providing inaccurate ratings. For example, if a supervisor is able to see the advantages of a well-implemented performance management system, as opposed to one dominated by office politics, he or she will be motivated to help the system succeed. Also, if a supervisor believes there is accountability in the system and ratings that are overly lenient are likely to be easily dis- covered, resulting in an embarrassing situation for the supervisor, leniency is also likely to be minimized. Lenient ratings may be minimized when supervisors understand they will have to justify their ratings to their own supervisors.43 In terms of increasing accounta- bility, specific recommendations include the following44:

- 1. Have raters justify their ratings. Ratings are more accurate when raters are told they will have to justify their ratings to someone with authority, such as their own supervisors. However, rating accuracy does not necessarily improve if raters need to justify their ratings to others with less authority such as their own subordinate.

- 2. Have the raters justify their ratings in a face-to-face meeting. Ratings are also more accurate when the rating justifications are offered in a face-to-face meeting compared to justifications offered in writing only.

In a nutshell, a supervisor asks herself, “What’s in it for me if I provide accurate ratings versus inflated or deflated ratings?” The performance management system needs to be designed in such a way that the benefits of providing accurate ratings outweigh the benefits of providing inaccurate ratings. This may include assessing the performance of the supervisor in how she is implementing performance management
