## Part I • Strategic and General Considerations

evaluations are more likely, resulting in an increased exposure to litigation for the organization.

- 11. There is better and more timely differentiation between good and poor performers. Performance management systems allow for a quicker identification of good and poor performers. Also, they force supervisors to face up to and address performance problems on a timely basis (i.e., before the problem becomes so entrenched that it cannot be easily remedied).

- 12. Supervisors’ views of performance are communicated more clearly. Performance management systems allow managers to communicate to their subordinates their judgments regarding performance. Thus, there is greater accountability in how man- agers discuss performance expectations and provide feedback. Both assessing and monitoring the performance of others are listed as key competencies for managers by the Management Standards Centre (www.management-standards.org, Units B3, B4, and B7). When managers possess these competencies, subordinates receive useful information about how their performance is seen by their supervisor. 13. Organizational change is facilitated. Performance management systems can be a useful tool to drive organizational change. For example, assume an organi- zation decides to change its culture to give top priority to product quality and customer service. Once this new organizational direction is established, per- formance management is used to align the organizational culture with the goals and objectives of the organization to make change possible. Employees are pro- vided training in the necessary skills and are rewarded for improved perform- ance so that they have both the knowledge and motivation to improve product quality and customer service. This is precisely what IBM did in the 1980s when it wanted to switch focus to customer satisfaction: the performance evaluation of every member in the organization was based, to some extent, on customer satis- faction ratings regardless of function (i.e., accounting, programming, manufac- turing, etc.).14 For IBM as well as numerous other organizations, performance management provides tools and motivation for individuals to change, which, in turn, helps drive organizational change. In short, performance management sys- tems are likely to produce changes in the culture of the organization and, there- fore, the consequences of such cultural changes should be considered carefully before implementing the system.15 As noted by Randy Pennington, president of Pennington Performance Group, “The truth is that the culture change is driven by a change in performance. An organization’s culture cannot be installed. It can be guided and influenced by policies, practices, skills, and procedures that are implemented and reinforced. The only way to change the culture is to change the way individuals perform on a daily basis.”16

- 14. Motivation, commitment, and intentions to stay in the organization are enhanced. When employees are satisfied with their organization’s perform- ance management system, they are more likely to be motivated to perform well, to be committed to their organization, and not try to leave the organization.17 For example, satisfaction with the performance management system is likely to make employees feel that the organization has a great deal of personal meaning for them. In terms of turnover intentions, satisfaction with the performance management system leads employees to report that they will probably not look for a new job in the next year and that they don’t often think about quitting