# Short-Term Incentives for Physicians

Short-term incentives are being used in a test pilot program in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Eight health-care providers and three insurance companies have teamed up with the nonprofit Colorado Business Group on Health to pay physicians up to $100 in cash per patient for providing diabetes care that results in positive outcomes for patients. Doctors in the program receive the additional pay as an incentive without an increase to base salary. The program requires doctors to work closely with patients and focus on preventative medicine, including education, goal-setting, and follow-up meetings. Physical indicators, such as blood pressure, blood sugar, and cholesterol, are measured against goals to determine whether successful outcomes are being achieved. The goals of the program are to provide better disease control for the patient and to cut down on expensive future treatments, such as emergency room visits and inpatient stays in the hospital. Additional savings are expected through reduced medical claims and health insurance premiums paid by employers. In summary, the health providers and insurers are utilizing short-term incentives as part of the performance management systems with the goal of motivating physicians to focus on treatments that will enhance the overall health and well-being of the patient in an ongoing manner.27

local governments employing more than six people showed that all but one of the state governments and 242 (i.e., 85%) of the local governments used some type of incentive.26 Some organizations are taking this idea to what may be called “big pay for big performance.” Contingent pay plans will be discussed in detail in Chapter 10. In the meantime, consider the case of a Denver, Colorado, energy company, Delta Petroleum, which gave four top executives 1.5 million shares the day the stock closed at $21.76, for a total value of $32.6 million.28 However, there is a catch: Delta stock will have to reach $40 per share for the executives to be able to sell theirs. If this value is not reached, the executives’ shares cannot be cashed in. Moreover, the executives will be able to sell only one-sixth of their shares when the price reaches $40. They will be able to sell another one-sixth if and when the stock price reaches $50, and another sixth if and when it reaches $60. And there is yet another restriction: time. The first batch of stock that vests at $40 must reach that value within 13 months of the time the executives received the options. If the value of $40 is not reached within this time frame, the second and third batches of stock cannot be cashed in and they simply disappear.