---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1b9a692308086702d62dffc9fdee3a0b203f365e
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Chapter 7 • Implementing a Performance Management System 183

- 4. Substitute the more functional thinking for the dysfunctional thoughts experi- enced in actual situations. For example, more constructive assumptions, ways of talking to oneself, and mental images of the likely outcome of a performance discussion with an employee can be worked out and written down on paper. 5. Continue monitoring and maintaining beliefs, self-verbalizations, and mental images over time.

A related type of training program is labeled self-efficacy training for raters (SET-R).24 The goal of this type of training is to decrease a rater’s discomfort with the interpersonal demands of performance management and to enhance a manager’s belief that he has the necessary skills to manage employees’ performance. This type of training includes the following steps:

- 1. Raters watch a videotape of a vicarious success experience including a manager conducting a successful performance review meeting with a subordinate.

- 2. Raters engage in a follow-up discussion of the specific behaviors observed in the videotape that contributed to the meeting’s success. This follow-up discussion has the dual goals of (1) focusing the raters’ attention on the techniques used by the videotaped manager to convey negative feedback and (2) allowing for an opportunity to persuade raters that they too would be able to conduct such a successful meeting.

- 3. Raters participate in a role-play exercise that requires providing feedback to an employee. This role-play exercise is repeated until raters demonstrate an appro- priate level of mastery.

In summary, raters are likely to make both intentional and unintentional errors when providing performance information. Intentional errors are largely due to motiva- tional issues; in some cases, raters see more benefit in distorting ratings than in providing accurate information. Unintentional errors are largely due to cognitive biases that are the product of the complex tasks of observing, encoding, storing, and retrieving performance information. Through the combined use of a good communication plan and various training programs, ratings errors can be substantially minimized. Regarding the communication plan, it is important that it include convincing reasons that it is more advantageous to provide accurate than inaccurate performance informa- tion. Regarding training programs, these often focus on describing the errors that raters usually make (i.e., RET programs). In addition, they should allow raters to generate a common FOR to be used in evaluating performance as well as offer raters tools to improve observation and memory skills and help mitigate the discomfort generated by the interpersonal demands of the performance management process. FOR training is particularly beneficial when performance measurement emphasizes behaviors. On the other hand, BO training is particularly beneficial when performance measurement emphasizes results because raters learn not only how to observe behaviors but also how these behaviors are linked to results.

Thus far, this chapter has described how to prepare for the implementation of a performance management system by designing a communication plan and an appeals process and by delivering training programs. Next, we turn to the final set of activities required before the performance management system is put into practice: pilot testing.
