data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1313.md, before:

## Chapter 7 • Implementing a Performance Management System 187

- Overall cost/benefit ratio or return on investment (ROI). A fairly simple way to address the overall impact of the system is to ask participants to rate the overall cost/benefit ratio for the performance management system. This is a type of bottom-line question that can provide convincing evidence for the overall worth of the system. The cost/benefit ratio question can be asked in reference to an individual (employee or manager), her job, and her organizational unit.

- Unit-level and organization-level performance. Another indicator that the system is working well is provided by the measurement of unit- and organization-level performance. Such performance indicators might be customer satisfaction with specific units and indicators of the financial performance of the various units or the organization as a whole. We need to be aware that it may take some time for changes in individual and group performance level to be translated into unit- and organization-level results. We should not expect results as soon as the system is implemented; however, we should start to see some tangible results at the unit level a few months after the system is in place.

Consider the case of Caterpillar, which was founded in 1925, manufactures more than 300 products in 23 countries, and serves customers in 200 countries worldwide (http://www.cat.com). In their own words, Caterpillar’s “value advantage” is to “have the people, processes, tools and investments to deliver the quality, reliability and durabil- ity customers expect from Caterpillar in each new product introduction.” Given this value proposition, Caterpillar has a strategic view of how managers should manage and improve the performance of their people. As a result, the organization has had a perform- ance management system in place for many years. More recently, Caterpillar embarked on an impressive initiative to evaluate its performance management system. Specifically, the goal of this evaluation was to assess the cost/benefit ratio—return on investment (ROI)— of the training portions of the system that targeted managers and included modules about goal setting and coaching, among others. This evaluation included three steps. First, there was an estimated ROI based on how much performance management training would cost and its expected benefits. This information was used prior to implementing the program to establish the program’s business case. Second, there was an ROI forecast, which enabled the program’s leaders to better understand how to make full deployment of the initiative successful. Participants in this study completed a questionnaire in which they described the potential financial and nonfinancial effects of the program. Third, an ROI study was conducted three months after the performance management training intervention to learn about financial as well as non-tangible returns. This was done via focus groups that docu- mented both how training participants had used the knowledge they had acquired and how much the business impact and financial benefits that the performance management training seemed to generate. Finally, a follow-up study was conducted two months later to confirm the results of the third step. This final study included an online questionnaire com- pleted by the subordinates of the managers who had participated in the program. This final step provided cross-validation data from the perspective of subordinates.

Results were quite impressive. For example, results of the ROI study indicated that 88% of respondents believed the program had a positive impact on the organization, 53% reported that their personal productivity increased, 28% reported that product quality im- proved, and 33% reported that costs were reduced. The overall ROI was calculated as fol- lows: (Benefits (cid:3) Costs) / Costs) × 100. Benefits were annualized, treated as sustainable

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1313.md, after:

---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 14a1ef0c46d38bc6aac45788d7c5a5d19b79563b
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# the system:

- Number of individuals evaluated. One of the most basic measures is to assess the number of employees who are actually participating in the system. If performance evaluations have not been completed for some employees, we need to find out who they are and why a performance review has not been completed.

- Distribution of performance ratings. An indicator of quality of the performance assessments is whether all or most scores are too high, too low, or clumped around the center of the distribution. This may indicate intentional errors such as leniency, severity, and central tendency. Distributions of performance ratings can be broken down by unit and supervisor to determine whether any trends exist regarding rating distortion and whether these distortions are localized in particular units. Note that there may be exceptional units in which most employees are outstand- ing performers and units in which most employees are poor performers. This is the exception to the rule, however, and such distributions usually indicate inten- tional errors on the part of raters.

- Quality of information. Another indicator of quality of the performance assess- ments is the quality of the information provided in the open-ended sections of the forms. For example, how much did the rater write? What is the relevance of the examples provided?

- Quality of follow-up actions. A good indicator of the quality of the system is whether it leads to important follow-up actions in terms of development activities or improved processes. For example, to what extent do follow-up actions involve exclusively the supervisor as opposed to the employee? If this is the case, then the system may not be working as intended because it may be an indicator that employees are not sufficiently involved.31

- Quality of performance discussion meeting. A confidential survey can be distributed to all employees on a regular basis to gather information about how the supervisor is managing the performance discussion meetings. For example, is the feedback useful? Has the supervisor made resources available so that the employee can ac- complish the developmental plan objectives? How relevant was the performance review discussion to one’s job? To what degree have developmental objectives and plans been discussed?32

- System satisfaction. A confidential survey could also be distributed to assess the perceptions of the system’s users, both raters and ratees. This survey can include questions about satisfaction with equity, usefulness, and accuracy.
