---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 473bd3f82d3ab86d415537a2cae179193d7d5c26
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## 1.7 INTEGRATION WITH OTHER HUMAN RESOURCES AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES

Performance management systems serve as important “feeders” to other human resources and development activities. For example, consider the relationship between performance management and training. Performance management provides informa- tion on developmental needs for employees. In the absence of a good performance management system, it is not clear that organizations will use their training resources in the most efficient way (i.e., to train those who most need it in the most critical areas). One organization that is able to link its performance management system to training initiatives is Kimberly-Clark.58 Kimberly-Clark’s global performance management sys- tem includes about 57,000 employees across 36 countries (http://www.kimberly-clark. com/ourcompany/overview.aspx). This system makes a clear link between perform- ance and training, allows employees to understand areas that need to be improved, and directs them to appropriate opportunities to enable improvements in performance. For example, in Peru, Kimberly-Clark has partnered with the National Service of Occupational Training in Industry (Senati), a local technical institute, to provide train- ing on manufacturing skills. Kimberly-Clark reached a similar agreement in Malaysia with the University College of Tun Hussein Onn. Similarly, there is a training partner in Korea. The beneficial link between performance management and training became evi- denced recently in the Korean operations, where the newspaper Dong-A Ilbo named Yuhan-Kimberly one of “the 30 most respected companies in Korea.”

Unfortunately, despite the successful Kimberly-Clark example, most organizations do not use performance management systems to determine training content and waste an opportunity to use the performance management system as the needs assessment phase of their training efforts.59 Specifically, a recent survey including 218 HR leaders at companies with at least 2,500 employees revealed that there is tight integration between performance management and learning/development activities in only 15.3% of the organizations surveyed.60

Performance management also provides key information for workforce planning. Specifically, an organization’s talent inventory is based on information collected through the performance management system. Development plans provide informa- tion on what skills will be acquired in the near future. This information is also used in making recruitment and hiring decisions. Knowledge of an organization’s current and future talent is important when deciding what types of skills need to be acquired externally and what types of skills can be found within the organization.
