# 360-Degree Feedback

Anyone who has children is aware that how they interact with their grandparents is not necessarily how they interact with their parents, babysitters, or siblings. Moreover, how they behave on the playground is unli- kely to yield clues as to how they behave in the classroom, let alone in the home. The answer to ‘‘Who is my child?’’ is ‘‘All of the above.’’ For similar reasoning, feedback from multiple sources, often termed 360- degree or multisource feedback, is blossom- ing in the workplace.

A perception of an employee’s perfor- mance varies among subordinates, peers, and supervisors. How an employee interacts with the boss is not necessarily an indicator of how that employee interacts with peers or subordinates. Multisource feedback takes into account the fact that different popula- tions (e.g., peers, subordinates) have differ- ent opportunities to observe different aspects of a person’s performance. It thus provides an integrated, holistic view of an employee, offsetting the biases of an appraisal from only a single vantage point (e.g., the boss). More- over, 360-degree feedback is consistent with organizational values for teamwork. Upwards of 90% of Fortune 1000 ﬁrms now collect assessments of an employee from multiple sources.

360-Degree feedback is being used in many large companies, such as DuPont, Gen- eral Electric Co. (GE), Motorola Inc., Procter & Gamble Co. and United Parcel Service of

America Inc. (UPS). For example, a 360- degree feedback program exists at AT&T Corp.’s business products division. Any manager supervising three or more people has to go through an evaluation every year and must share the results with his or her supervisors, as well as with the employees below the manager. Several senior managers, at AT&T, Nestle’s and General Motors Corp., have openly admitted that they have been surprised by the upward feedback within a 360-degree evaluation. The managers were unaware of the inaccurate perceptions of some of their actions, and the uncertainty amongst employees regarding issues the managers thought they had communicated. However, agreement among multiple sources of an appraisal should not be expected. Each source often observes an employee in different contexts, with super- visor–peer ratings typically exhibiting the greatest agreement, and subordinate–self rat- ings showing the least agreement. Hence, multisource appraisal instruments are often designedtoassess thoseaspects ofthe jobthat a speciﬁc population (e.g., subordinates) is most likely to observe on an ongoing basis. In short, a person’s appraisal often differs across populations (supervisor vs. subordi- nates) because of the actual differences in the behaviors that are observed in different contexts.

Thus, multisource appraisals are taken into account at JP Morgan Chase when deter- mining developmental goals (teamwork), and/or making an administrative decision (e.g., promotion). Among the strengths and limitations of each source of an appraisal are the following: