data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk0884.md, before:

# End Notes

- 1. The following discussion of accountabilities, objectives, and standards is based on D. Grote. The complete guide to performance appraisal (New York: AMACOM, 1996), chap. 4.

- 2. Hoogenboezem, J. A., & Hoogenboezem, D. B. (2005). Coping with targets: Performance measurement in the Netherlands police. International Journal of Productivity and Performance Management, 54, 568–578.

- 3. Loveday, B. (2006). Policing performance: The impact of performance measures and targets on police forces in England and Wales. International Journal of Police Science & Management, 8, 282–293.

- 4. Daley, D. M. (1991). Great expectations, or a tale of two systems: Employee attitudes to- ward graphic rating scales and MBO-based performance appraisal. Public Administration Quarterly, 15, 188–209.

- 5. Adapted from D. Grote, The complete guide to performance appraisal (New York: AMACOM, 1996), 91–94.

- 6. Shaw, K. N. (2004). Changing the goal- setting process at Microsoft. Academy of Management Executive, 18, 139–142.

- 7. Adapted from D. L. Kirkpatrick, How to improve performance through appraisal and coaching (New York: AMACOM, 1982), 35–36.

- 8. Levenson, A. R., Van Der Stede, W. A., & Cohen, S. G. (2006). Measuring the relationship between managerial competencies and per- formance. Journal of Management, 32, 360–380. 9. Chughtai, J. (2006). Identifying future lead- ers at Xerox Capital Services. Strategic HR Review. Available online at www.allbusiness .com/periodicals/article/892962-1.html. Retrieval date: May 1, 2011.

- 10. Kendra, K. A., & Taplin, L. J. (2004). Change agent competencies for information technol- ogy project managers. Consulting Psychology Journal: Practice & Research, 56, 20–34. Judge, T. A., Piccolo, R. F., & Illies, R. I. (2004). The forgotten ones? The validity of consider- ation and initiating structure in leadership re- search. Journal of Applied Psychology, 89, 36–51. 12. Grote, D. (1996). The complete guide to perform- ance appraisal (p. 118). New York: AMACOM. 13. The material that follows on comparative and absolute systems is based primarily on W. F. Cascio and H. Aguinis, Applied psychology in human resources management (7th ed.). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2011.

11.

- 14. Siegel, L. (1982). Paired comparison evalua- tions of managerial effectiveness by peers and supervisors. Personnel Psychology, 37, 703–710. 15. Goffin, R. D., Jelley, R. B., Powell, D. M., & Johnston, N. G. (2009). Taking advantage of social comparisons in performance appraisal: The relative percentile method. Human Resource Management, 48, 251–268.

- 16. Davis, P., & Rogers, B. (2003). Managing the “C” performer: An alternative to forced rank- ing of appraisals. Available online at http:// www.workinfo.com/free/Downloads/150. htm. Retrieval date: May 1, 2011.

- 17. McGregor, J. (2006, January). The struggle to measure performance. Business Week. Available online at http://www.businessweek.com/ magazine/content/06_02/b3966060.htm. Retrieval date: May 1, 2011.

- 18. Goffin, R. D., Jelley, R. B., Powell, D. M., & Johnston, N. G. (2009). Taking advantage of social comparisons in performance appraisal: The relative percentile method. Human Resource Management, 48, 251–268.

- 19. Holland, K. (2006, September 10). Perfor- mance reviews: Many need improvement. The

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk0884.md, after:

---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ec0cfbbd99626e09ae5a62e744cb81866e407f96
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# CAS E ST U DY 5-4

Creating BARS-Based Graphic Rating Scales for Evaluating Business Student Performance in Team Projects

In many universities, students are required to conduct team projects. A description of these “job” duties is the following:

Work with team members to deliver project outcomes on time and according to specifica- tions. Complete all individual assignments to the highest quality, completing necessary back- ground research, making any mathematical analysis, and preparing final documents. Foster a good working environment.

Please do the following:

- 1. Generate a list of competencies for the position described. Identify a list of critical behavioral indicators for each competency.

- 1. Generate a list of competencies for the position described. Identify a list of critical behavioral indicators for each competency.

- 3. Generate critical incidents (high, average, and poor performance) for each behavioral indicator.

- 4. Create graphic rating scales using BARS to measure each competency. (cid:2)
