# 7.3 APPEALS PROCESS

The inclusion of an appeals process is important in gaining employee acceptance for the performance management system because it allows employees to understand that if there is a disagreement regarding performance ratings or any resulting decisions, then such disagreements can be resolved in an amicable and nonretaliatory way. In addition, the inclusion of an appeals process increases perceptions of the system as fair.6

When an appeals process is in place, employees have the ability to question two types of issues: judgmental and administrative.7 Judgmental issues center on the validity of the performance evaluation. For example, an employee may believe that a manager’s performance ratings for that employee do not reflect his actual performance. Administrative issues involve whether the policies and procedures were followed. For example, an employee may argue that her supervisor did not meet with her as frequently as he had with her coworkers and that the feedback she is receiving about her performance is not as thorough as that received by her coworkers.

Typically, when an appeal is first filed, the HR department serves as a mediator between the employee and the supervisor. An appeal sent to the HR department is usually called a Level 1 or Level A appeal. The HR department is in a good position to judge whether policies and procedures have been implemented correctly and has good information about the various jobs, levels of performance expected, and levels of performance of other employees within the unit and organization. The HR department gathers the necessary facts and brings them to the attention of either the rater to encourage reconsideration of the decision that caused the appeal or to the complainant to explain why there have been no biases or violations. In other words, the HR depart- ment either suggests corrective action to the supervisor or informs the employee that the decision or procedures were correct.

If the supervisor does not believe corrective action should be taken, or if the employee does not accept the HR decision, and the appeal continues, then an outside and unbiased arbitrator makes a final and binding resolution. This is usually called a Level 2 or Level B appeal. This arbitrator can consist of a panel of peers and managers. The panel reviews the case, asks questions, interviews witnesses, researches precedents, and reviews policy. Then, they simply take a vote to make the decision. In some cases, the vote represents the final decision. In other cases, the vote is forwarded to a high-level manager (vice president or higher level) who takes the panel’s vote into consideration in making the final decision. The box “Selected Excerpts from the University of North Carolina Performance Management Appeals Process” shows some of the key sections of the performance