## Part I • Strategic and General Considerations

The second important prerequisite before a performance management system is implemented is to understand the job in question. This is done through job analysis. Job analysis is a process of determining the key components of a particular job, including activ- ities, tasks, products, services, and processes. Ajob analysis is a fundamental prerequisite of any performance management system. Without a job analysis, it is difficult to understand what constitutes the required duties for a particular job. If we don’t know what an employee is supposed to do on the job, we won’t know what needs to be evaluated and how to do so.

As a result of a job analysis, we obtain information regarding the tasks carried out and the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) required of a particular job. Knowledge includes having the information needed to perform the work, but not necessarily having done it. Skills refer to required attributes that are usually acquired by having done the work in the past. Ability refers to having the physical, emotional, intellectual, and psychological aptitude to perform the work, but neither having done the job nor having been trained to do the work is required.4

The tasks and KSAs needed for the various jobs are typically presented in the form of a job description, which summarizes the job duties, needed KSAs, and working conditions for a particular job. As an illustration, see the box “Job Description for Trailer Truck Driver.” This job description includes information about what tasks are performed (e.g., operation of a specific type of truck). It also includes information about the needed knowledge (e.g., manifests, bills of lading), skills (e.g., keeping the truck and trailer under control, particularly in difficult weather conditions), and abilities (e.g., physical and spatial abilities needed to turn narrow corners).

Job analysis can be conducted using observation, off-the-shelf questionnaires, or interviews. Data are collected from job incumbents (i.e., those doing the job at pres- ent) and their supervisors. Alternatively, if the job is yet to be created, data can be gathered from the individual(s) responsible for creating the new position and those who will supervise individuals in the new position. Observation methods include job analysts watching incumbents do the job, or even trying to do the work themselves, and then producing a description of what they have observed. This method can be subject to biases because job analysts may not be able to distinguish important from unimportant tasks. Such analysis may not be suitable for many jobs. For example, a job analyst could not do the work of a police officer for safety reasons or the work of a software programmer for the lack of knowledge and skills to do the work. Off-the- shelf methods involve distributing questionnaires, including a common list of tasks or KSAs, and asking individuals to fill them out, indicating the extent to which each task or KSA is required for a particular job in question. These generic off-the-shelf tools can be practical, but they might not capture the nuances and idiosyncrasies of jobs out of the mainstream.

Interviews are a very popular job analysis method. During a job analysis inter- view, the job analyst asks the interviewee to describe what he or she does (or what indi- viduals in the position do) during a typical day at the job from start to finish (i.e., in chronological order). Alternatively, the job analyst can ask the interviewee to describe the major duties involved in the job and then ask him or her to break down these duties into specific tasks. Once a list of tasks has been compiled, all incumbents should have