---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 224e645b5d02b16a3036430596a0bb3d07e1e3eb
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# 11.1 DEFINITION AND IMPORTANCE OF TEAMS

Thus far, this book has focused mainly on the measurement of employees working individually and not in teams. Although the book has referred to individual and team performance, the emphasis until this point has been on individual performance. The discussion of team performance is important and deserves its own chapter given the increasing pervasiveness of teams in organizations worldwide. It is virtually impossible to think of an organization that does not organize its functions at least in part based on teams.1 Evidence of this is found in a recent survey of Fortune 1000 companies that discovered that these companies considered teamwork and how to make the most out of teams their number one priority.2

A team is in place when two or more people interact dynamically and interdependently and share a common and valued goal, objective, or mission.3 Examples of teams range from a group of top managers working together face-to-face on an ongoing basis with the goal of achieving corporate goals to a group of programmers in India and the United States writing programming codes that eventually will be put together as one software program. Teams do not have to be permanent, and team members do not have to be in the same geographical location. In fact, team members do not need to have ever met in person to be members of the same team. As long as they work together, need each other, and share common goals, they are considered to be members of the same team. Numerous organizations are structured around teams, including teams called autonomous work groups, process teams, or self-managing work teams. When autonomous work groups are in place, members have the authority to manage their own tasks and interpersonal processes as they carry out their work.

Why are teams so popular? First, businesses are facing increased pressures, including global competition, and they believe that the use of teams might be one way to improve products and services and to increase productivity. Also, meeting the needs of global customers often requires teams with members from different parts of the world. Second, many organizations have gone through downsizing and restructuring, which has led them to become flatter and has reduced the number of hierarchical levels. Using teams provides greater flexibility for these organizations. Third, products and services are becoming very complex, requiring many people contributing their diverse talents to the same project. In most cases, no one individual can surpass the combined talent of an entire group. Finally, rapidly changing business environments are also responsible for the popularity of teams because teams are able to respond more quickly and more effectively to changes than can individuals working alone.

Although many organizations choose to structure themselves around autonomous work teams and teams in general, team-based organizations do not necessarily outper- form organizations that are not structured around teams.4 In other words, team perform- ance does not always fulfill its promise; therefore, it makes sense for performance management systems to go beyond focusing on individual performance. Specifically, the system should target not only (1) individual performance but also (2) an individual’s contribution to the performance of his or her team(s) and (3) the performance of teams as a whole. An organization that includes any type of teams would therefore benefit from managing the performance of both individuals and teams.

Including team performance as part of a performance management system is a natural extension of a system that has focused on individual performance only.
