---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 407035298e5ce21d7af09648a493a51eed30d2c1
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Chapter 9 • Performance Management Skills

The disciplinary process should not come as a surprise to the employee or supervisor if there is a good performance management system in place because there are plenty of opportunities for the employee to overcome performance problems and for the supervisor to offer support and feedback so that willing and able employees will be able to do so. However, when a disciplinary process seems to be the only recourse, it is important to follow a set of steps so as not to fall into legal problems. Also, all employees, even those who are terminated, deserve to be treated with respect and dignity. Nevertheless, even if there is a top-notch performance management system in place, there are several pitfalls that must be avoided and specific actions supervisors can take to do so, which are the following:43

- 1. Pitfall 1: Acceptance of poor performance. Many supervisors may just want to ignore poor performance hoping that the problem will go away. Unfortunately, in most cases, the performance problems escalate and become worse over time. Suggested course of action: Do not ignore the problem. Addressing it as soon as possible can not only avoid negative consequences for the employee in question, coworkers, and customers but also help put the employee back in track in terms of his career objectives.

- 2. Pitfall 2: Failure to get the message through. The poor performing employee may argue that she did not know the problem was serious or that it existed at all. Suggested course of action: In the decision-making leave described earlier, make sure to be very specific about the performance problem and the consequences of not addressing it effectively. Make sure you document the action plan and that you have secured the employee’s agreement regarding the plan.

- 3. Pitfall 3: Performance standards are “unrealistic” or “unfair.” The employee may argue that performance standards and expectations are unrealistic or unfair. Suggested course of action: Remind the employee that his performance standards are similar to others holding the same position. Also, remind the employee that per- formance standards have been developed over time with the participation of the employee in question, and share with him documentation regarding past review meetings, including past appraisal forms with the employee signature on them. 4. Pitfall 4: Negative affective reactions. The employee may respond emotionally ranging from tears to shouts and even threats of violence. This, in turn, may create an emotional response on the part of the supervisor. Suggested course of action: Do not let emotional reactions derail you from your mission, which is to describe the nature of the problem, what needs to be done, and consequences of not doing so. If the employee is crying, do offer compassion, and give him some space to compose himself. You can give the employee some time and resume the meeting a few minutes later or a rescheduling of the meeting at a later time may be a good alternative. If the employee reaction involves a threat or suggest possible violence, call security immediately. If such threats do take place, report them to the human resources (HR) department.

- 5. Pitfall 5: Failure to consult HR. There are hundreds of wrongful termination cases that have cost millions of dollars to organizations that have not followed the appropriate termination procedures. Suggested course of action: If you are planning on implementing a disciplinary or termination process, consult with your HR department regarding legal requirements. For the most part, if you have a good performance management
