data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1264.md, before:

# 7.2 COMMUNICATION PLAN

In general, having more and better knowledge of the performance management system leads to greater employee acceptance and satisfaction.1 Organizations often design a communication plan to ensure that information regarding the performance management system is widely disseminated in the organization. Agood communication plan answers the following questions:2

- What is performance management? Answering this question involves providing general information about performance management, how performance manage- ment systems are implemented in other organizations, and the general goals of performance management systems.

- How does performance management fit into our strategy? To answer this question, we should provide information on the relationship between performance management and strategic planning. Specifically, information is provided on how the performance management system will help accomplish strategic goals.

- What’s in it for me? A good communication plan describes the benefits of imple- menting performance management for all those involved.

- How does it work? Answering this question entails giving a detailed description of the performance management process and time line: for example, when meetings will take place, what the purposes of each meeting are, and when decisions about rewards will be made.

- What are my responsibilities? The communication plan should include information on the role and responsibilities of each person involved at each stage of the process. For example, it includes a description of the employees’ and supervisors’ main responsibilities in the performance management process.

- How is performance management related to other initiatives? The communication plan should include information on the relationship between performance management and other initiatives and systems such as training, promotion, and succession planning.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1264.md, after:

---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: bb125c577d9ed674277706ba10b6e4ca132843db
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# Part II • System Implementation

however, the system cannot be implemented successfully if only a handful of organiza- tional members are on board.

Before the system is launched, a successful communication plan must be imple- mented that will gain system acceptance. Part of the communication plan includes a description of the appeals process. Then, as part of the preparation phase before the system is actually launched, raters are trained to observe and evaluate performance as well as to give feedback. The system should then be tested, and the results of a pilot test should be used to fix any glitches. Only after these presystem implementation steps are taken can the system be launched with confidence. Finally, after the system has been tested and launched, there is a need to monitor and evaluate the system on an ongoing basis to determine whether it is working properly and what adjustments may be needed to make it work. The ongoing monitoring of the system is crucial because the system may eventually lose support if no data are provided to show the system’s benefits.

Next, let’s discuss what needs to be done before the system is actually implemented, including formulating a communication plan, establishing an appeals process, training raters, and pilot testing the system.
