---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8014e32c542a80b724d988d2b4726c7f1d7ca9de
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Financial and Nonfinancial Rewards at Graniterock

Graniterock (http://www.graniterock.com) utilizes a number of strategies to recognize and reward performance. Graniterock provides materials to the construction industry, including products such as asphalt, concrete, and building materials. The U.S.-based company employs 750 people. The company utilizes both financial and nonfinancial incentives. Employees earn bonus pay of as much as $1,000 for specific performance achievements that require an effort that go “above and beyond” normal job expectations. Several nonfinancial incentives are also utilized, such as a letter from the president along with cash rewards. The company holds regular events called “recognition days” where employees give presentations before the CEO, executives, and coworkers about improvements they have made on the job. This gives employees the chance to receive credit in a highly visible manner, directly from others in the company. As part of an emphasis on improvement, employees continually seek better ways of handling processes, and about one-third of all company processes are changed each year as a result. The company publishes stories about special efforts in a weekly newsletter. Supervisors also utilize rewards on a day-to-day and less formal basis, such as providing lunch to a group of employees who are putting forth a strong effort on a large job pouring concrete. In summary, Graniterock utilizes both financial and nonfinancial rewards to motivate employees and to reinforce a culture that values constant improvement and innovation in the workplace.28

We should also understand that providing nonfinancial rewards in meaningful ways can be a powerful motivator. Consider the example of the SAS Institute, the world’s leader in business analytics software (www.sas.com). This company is leg- endary for having one of the lowest turnover rates in the software industry. Does SAS pay higher salaries than its competitors? Not really. What do SAS employees say about their organization? They say that they do not leave for other, perhaps more lucrative, jobs because SAS offers opportunities to work with the most up-to-date equipment, jobs have variety, other employees are congenial and smart, and the organization cares about its employees and appreciates their work.29

Think about your current job or the last job you had. How were rewards allo- cated? Which of the eight recommendations listed in Table 10.3 were followed in the process of allocating rewards? Based on this, how effective were the rewards that were given? Did they help improve employee motivation and performance?
