# 11.5 REWARDING TEAM PERFORMANCE

Teams are a pervasive fact of organizational life. Because of this, organizations that implement performance management systems that include team performance must redesign their rewards system to reward team performance. For example, about 59% of Fortune 1000 companies had a team-based reward system in place in 1990, but this number had risen to 80% by 1999.25 This number needs to be qualified because it does not mean that the entire organization rewards team performance. The results from this survey suggest that at least some units within these organizations reward team performance. Nevertheless, this statistic provides evidence regarding the increasing number of organizations that have some kind of team-based reward system. As an illustration, teams of workers in the production line at Motorola’s plant in Tianjin, China receive additional compensation if they keep the percentage of errors under a prespecified threshold. In a second example, a recent study investigated the effects of implementing a pay-for-performance system at the team level with top management teams at a global information technology company.26 The teams included seven or eight members. Each of the teams had team-level performance goals, which were specific but differed from team to team. Rewards were allocated based on organizational performance goals (25%), team-level goals (50%), and indi- vidual-level goals (25%).

Organizations can reward team performance in ways similar to those in which they reward individual performance. For example, consider the case of Phelps Dodge Mining Company (http://www.phelpsdodge.com/). Recently, the company imple- mented a team-based reward system involving more than 4,200 employees in six locations throughout North America. The company moved from being unionized to being nonunionized in the 1980s, and a key strategic objective was to help employees move away from working for an hourly wage to understanding how to work as a salaried workforce. To accomplish this goal, team performance was measured and rewarded accordingly. For example, a team goal in a truck maintenance shop was to shorten the time that trucks were off-line for maintenance. Goals are set through the active participation of all team members, and employees are given additional compen- sation depending on whether they accomplish team-based goals.

Team-based rewards are effective if they are implemented following the same principles used for individual rewards discussed in Chapter 10 (see Table 10.3). For example, all employees should be eligible, and rewards should be visible, contingent, and reversible. Also, in implementing team rewards, we need to be aware of the factors that make rewards fail (see Table 10.1). For example, rewards given to team members based on the extent to which they cooperate with each other are likely to enhance accuracy but not necessarily speed.27 If the goal of the reward is to motivate employees