# Contingent Pay at Nucor Corporation

At Nucor Corporation (http://www.nucor.com), contingent pay has for many years been a part of the company’s approach to compensation. Nucor, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, is the largest producer of steel in the United States. The company employs 11,500 people. The pay practice at Nucor includes putting a considerable amount of pay at risk, and the size of paychecks depends upon results achieved. For comparison, competitors often pay an experienced steelworker between $16 and $21 per hour. The similarly qualified employee at Nucor would have a guarantee of $10 per hour; however, the bonus system at Nucor allows employees to make three times the average pay under certain circumstances, such as producing steel without any defects. Bonuses are based on performance and paid on a weekly basis. The system also means that substandard performance is penalized by a loss in pay. For example, errors may result in a lost bonus opportunity. Managers in the company are also paid a lower than average base pay, generally 75%–90% of industry average rates, but bonus payments could reach 75%–90% of base salary, depending on the performance outcomes established for the plant as a whole. In summary, Nucor Corporation has utilized contingent pay plans to motivate employee perform- ance and reward positive outcomes.20

Stock sharing has caught media attention in recent years. In this type of plan, stock is distributed as a reward, or executives are given the option to buy company stock at a reduced rate per share. Unfortunately, this type of CP plan has led many executives to attempt to maximize their personal wealth by inflating the price of their personal stock, often through fraudulent means, and selling their stock before the public is aware of the situation. This happened at Enron and WorldCom, where thousands of investors lost their retirement funds. This is an example of the folly of rewarding A while hoping for B, described in the previous section.