# Part II • System Implementation

important that employees take part in the process of selecting which sources will evaluate which performance dimen- sions.Active participation in the process is likely to enhance acceptance of results and perceptions that the system is fair. • When multiple sources of performance information are used, there may be dis- agreements about an employee’s per- formance level, even if these multiple sources are rating the same perfor- mance dimension. The people rating the same employee may be drawn from dif- ferent organizational levels, and they may observe different facets of the employee’s performance, even if they are evaluating the same general competency (e.g., “com- munication”). If an overall score is needed that considers all sources, then a weight- ing mechanism is needed. For example, a decision needs to be made regarding whether performance information pro- vided by the supervisor has more or less relative importance than that provided by customers. There is no need to summa- rize the information across the sources for feedback purposes; in fact, it is beneficial for the employee to receive feedback broken down by source so that the employee can place particular attention and effort on the interactions involving any source that has detected performance deficiencies.

- In providing performance information, raters may make intentional errors. These errors may involve inflating or deflating performance scores. For example, a supervisor may want to avoid a con- frontation with his or her employees and inflate ratings. A peer may believe that providing accurate ratings may jeopard- ize the relationship with a colleague and may, consequently, provide inflated ratings. When raters provide perfor- mance ratings, they are faced with pro- viding either accurate or inaccurate ratings. They weigh costs and benefits of

choosing one or the other path. If the cost/benefit equation does not favor pro- viding accurate ratings, it is likely that ratings will be distorted. When this happens, incorrect decisions may be made, employees are likely to feel they have been treated unfairly, and the organization is more prone to litigation. In other words, when performance ratings are distorted because raters are not motivated to provide accurate scores, the performance management system not only will fail to achieve desired outcomes but also may lead to very nega- tive consequences for the organization. • In addition to intentional errors, raters may make unintentional errors in pro- viding performance ratings. This hap- pens because observing information about performance, storing this infor- mation in memory, and then recalling it when it is time to fill out the appraisal form is a complex cognitive task.

- Intentional and unintentional distortion in performance ratings can be minimized by providing raters with extensive train- ing. Such training programs include content related to information, motiva- tion, and skills. For example, regarding information, training programs address an overview of the entire performance management system. Regarding motiva- tion, raters are given information about how rating employees accurately will provide them with direct and tangible benefits. Training programs can demon- strate how to conduct an appraisal interview. No performance management system is foolproof, and performance ratings are inherently subjective; how- ever, the implementation of such training programs, together with accountability (i.e., having to justify ratings to superiors in a face-to-face meeting) and rewards associated with accurate ratings, pro- vides raters with the needed motivation and skills to minimize rating errors.