# Part III • Employee Development

Assuming this is a company policy and there is senior management support, you can communicate the leave as follows:42

Lucy, as you know, you and I have met on several occasions to talk about your performance. In spite of these feedback sessions, I see that you are still having some difficulties with important tasks and projects. Consistent with my obser- vations, I have received comments from some of your peers related to some performance deficiencies they have also noticed. I think that issuing a written warning would be counterproductive—I am concerned that it may decrease your motivation and do more harm than good. Instead, what I am going to do is to put you on what we call a “decision-making leave” for a day. This is a type of intervention that has worked very well with other individuals in your same position in the past. I want you to know that this is a once-in-a-career benefit that you should use to your advantage and I decided to do this because I truly believe that you are capable of improving your performance. It works like this. Iam going to ask you to not come to the office tomorrow but you will be paid for that day, so you don’t have to worry about your paycheck being affected. While you are away from the office tomorrow, I want you to give serious thought about whether you really want to work in this company. You and I will meet when you return to the office the day after tomorrow and I will ask you to tell me whether you’d rather resign and look for work elsewhere. I will understand and will be fully supportive if that is your decision. On the other hand, if when we meet you tell me you want to keep your job here, then I will give you an additional assignment on which I want you to work while you are away from the office tomorrow. Recall that you are being paid for the day, so here is what I want you to do. Please prepare a one-page letter addressed to me convincing me that you assume full and total responsibility for the performance issues we discussed during our feedback sessions. You will have to provide clear and specific arguments as well as describe a specific set of actions you will take to convince me that you will address the problems. I will keep the letter in a safe place but I am not planning on including it in your personnel file for now. To be clear, however, this letter is a personal commitment from you to me and our agreement is that if you don’t stick to the terms of your letter, you will essentially fire yourself. This is a very important moment for you and for me, and it could be a turning point in your career development. Now that I have explained the process, I would like to hear any questions or comments you may have about this “decision-making leave day” that you will be taking tomorrow.

Using a decision-making leave as part of the performance management system can be a powerful tool to give problem employees an opportunity to improve their performance. However, this tool may not lead to the desired outcomes, and the employee may have to enter into a disciplinary process. Note that a demotion or transfer may be a more appropriate action when there is evidence that the employee is actually trying to overcome the performance deficiencies but is not able to do so. However, termination is the appropriate action when performance does not improve and the employee continues to make the same mistakes or fails to meet standards. Also, termination is the appropriate course of action when an employee engages in serious violations of policies, laws, or regulations such as theft, fraud, falsifying documents, and related serious offences.