# ABOUT THE AUTHOR

Dr. Herman Aguinis is the Dean’s Research Professor, Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resources, and the Founding Director of the Institute for Global Organizational Effectiveness at Indiana University’s Kelley School of Business. He has been a visiting scholar at universities in the People’s Republic of China (Beijing and Hong Kong), Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, Argentina, France, Puerto Rico, South Africa, and Spain. His teaching, research, and consulting activities are in the areas of human capital acquisition, development, and deployment. Dr. Aguinis wrote Applied Psychology in Human Resource Management (with Wayne F. Cascio, 7th ed., 2011, Prentice Hall) and Regression Analysis for Categorical Moderators (2004, Guilford) and edited Test-Score Banding in Human Resource Selection (2004, Praeger) and Opening the Black Box of Editorship (with Y. Baruch, A. M. Konrad, & W. H. Starbuck, 2008, Palgrave-Macmillan). In addi- tion, he has written more than 90 refereed journal articles in Academy of Management Journal, Academy of Management Review, Journal of Applied Psychology, Personnel Psychology, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, and elsewhere. Dr. Aguinis is a Fellow of the American Psychological Association, the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology, and the Association for Psychological Science, and has been inducted into the Society of Organizational Behavior. He has served as Division Chair for the Research Methods Division of the Academy of Management, Program Chair for the Iberoamerican Academy of Management, and editor-in-chief for the journal Organizational Research Methods. He has delivered more than 180 presentations at professional conferences and more than 90 invited presentations at universi- ties in more than 20 countries around the world, and consulted with numerous organizations in the United States, Europe, and Latin America using his English, Spanish, French, Italian, and German language skills. For more information, please visit http://mypage.iu.edu/~haguinis/