---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e18fc74e829e9be4b451bba90f64a623c1b0d7cd
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# 6.5.1 Supervisors

An advantage of using supervisors as a source of performance information is that they are usually in the best position to evaluate performance in relation to strategic organizational goals. Also, supervisors are often those making decisions about rewards associated with performance evaluation. In addition, supervisors are able to differentiate among various performance dimensions (e.g., adaptability, coaching, and development) regardless of the level of experience of the employee being rated.15 In short, supervisors are often the most important source of performance information because they are knowledgeable about strategic issues, understand performance, and are usually in charge of managing employee performance. Moreover, in some cultural contexts, supervisors are seen as the exclusive source due to the pervasiveness of hierarchical organizational structures. For example, a survey of 74 HR directors in Jordan revealed that, in every one of these organizations, the supervisor had almost an exclusive input in terms of providing performance information, 95% of respon- dents reported that peers had no input, 82% reported that employees had no input, and 90% reported that customers had no input either.16

Although supervisors are usually the most important, and sometimes only, source of performance information, other sources should be considered as well. For example, we have already seen that self-appraisals are an important component in the performance review process. In addition to self-appraisals and supervisor appraisals, performance information can be collected from peers, customers, and subordinates (assuming there are any). Alternative sources are usually considered because, for some jobs, such as teaching, law enforcement, or sales, the supervisor may not observe her subordinates’ performance on a regular basis. Also, performance evaluations given by the supervisor may be biased because the supervisor may evaluate performance based on whether the ratee is contributing to goals valued by the supervisor as opposed to goals valued by the organization as a whole.17 For example, a supervisor may provide high performance ratings to employees who help the supervisor advance his or her career aspirations within the company, as opposed to those who engage in behaviors conducive to helping achieve organizational strategic goals.
