---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c7462676326a43ef70c48f8b137021a1f9d70190
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Part I • Strategic and General Considerations

them make decisions. Finally, the benefits of using the system (e.g., increased performance and job satisfaction) must be seen as outweighing the costs (e.g., time, effort, expense).

- Meaningfulness. The system must be meaningful in several ways. First, the stan- dards and evaluations conducted for each job function must be considered important and relevant. Second, performance assessment must emphasize only those functions that are under the control of the employee. For example, there is no point in letting an employee know she needs to increase the speed of service delivery when the supplier does not get the product to her on time. Third, evaluations must take place at regular intervals and at appropriate moments. Because one formal evaluation per year is usually not sufficient, informal quarterly reviews are recommended. Fourth, the system should provide for the continuing skill development of evaluators. Finally, the results should be used for important administrative decisions. People will not pay attention to a system that has no consequences in terms of outcomes that they value. For example, a recent study compared performance management systems in the former East versus former West Germany. Results showed that in former West German companies, there was a stronger link between the performance management system and administrative decisions such as promotions. This relation- ship was weaker in former East German companies, and this difference is probably due to the socialist political system in the former German Democratic Republic, which has had a long-lasting effect that is still observed today.47

- Specificity. A good system should be specific: it should provide detailed and concrete guidance to employees about what is expected of them and how they can meet these expectations.

- Identification of effective and ineffective performance. The performance man- agement system should provide information that allows for the identification of effective and ineffective performance. That is, the system should allow for distinguishing between effective and ineffective behaviors and results, thereby also allowing for the identification of employees displaying various levels of performance effectiveness. In terms of decision making, a system that classifies or ranks all levels of performance and all employees similarly is useless.

- Reliability. A good system should include measures of performance that are consistent and free of error. For example, if two supervisors provided ratings of the same employee and performance dimensions, ratings should be similar.

- Validity. The measures of performance should also be valid. In this context, validity refers to the fact that the measures include all relevant performance facets and do not include irrelevant performance facets. In other words, measures are relevant (i.e., include all critical performance facets), not deficient (i.e., do not leave any important aspects out), and are not contaminated (i.e., do not include factors outside of the control of the employee or factors unrelated to performance). In short, measures include what is important and do not assess what is not important and outside of the control of the employee. For example, the gondolieri in the city of Venice (Italy) have had a performance management system for about 1,000 years. Among other relevant performance dimensions, older versions of the performance management system required gondolieri to demonstrate their level of rowing skills and their ability to transport people and goods safely. These are clearly relevant dimensions. However, the system was contaminated because it included the
