# 3.2.1 Strategic Planning

The development of an organization’s strategic plan requires a careful analysis of the organization’s competitive situation, the organization’s current position and destination, the development of the organization’s strategic goals, the design of a plan of action and implementation, and the allocation of resources (human, organizational, physical) that will increase the likelihood of achieving the stated goals.6

There are several steps that must be considered in the creation of a successful strategic plan. These include (1) the conduct of an environmental analysis (i.e., the iden- tification of the internal and external parameters of the environment in which the organization operates); (2) the creation of an organizational mission (i.e., statement of what the organization is all about); (3) the creation of an organizational vision (i.e., statement of where the organization intends to be in the long term, say, about 10 years); (4) setting goals (i.e., what the organization intends to do in the short term, say, one to three years); and (5) the creation of strategies that will allow the organization to fulfill its mission and vision and achieve its goals (i.e., descriptions of game plans or how-to procedures to reach the stated objectives). After each of these issues has been defined, organizational strategies are created so that the mission and vision are fulfilled and the stated goals are met.

The strategic planning process is not linear, however. For example, there may first be a rough draft of the organization’s mission and vision and then the conduct of an environmental analysis may follow to help define the mission and vision more clearly. In other words, the mission and vision may be drafted first and the environmental analysis may follow second. The important point is that there is a constant interplay among these issues: the vision and mission affect the type of environmental analysis to be conducted, and the results of an environmental analysis are used to revise the mission and vision. By necessity, we need to discuss them one by one; however, keep in mind that they affect and inform each other on an ongoing basis. Let’s begin with a discussion of environmental analysis.

3.2.1.1 ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS The first step in conducting a strategic plan is to step back to take in the “big picture.” This is accomplished through what is called an environmental analysis. An environmental analysis identifies external and internal parameters with the purpose of understanding broad issues related to the industry where the organization operates so that decisions can be made against the backdrop of a broader context.7

An examination of the external environment includes a consideration of opportu- nities and threats. Opportunities are characteristics of the environment that can help the organization succeed. Examples of such opportunities might be markets not currently being served, untapped labor pools, and new technological advances. On the other hand, threats are characteristics of the external environment that can prevent the organization from being successful. Examples of such threats range from economic recession to the innovative products of competitors. For example, consider the case of Frontier, which is currently the second largest jet carrier at Denver International Airport with an average of 250 daily departures and arrivals. Frontier is an affordable-fare airline which provides service to 60 cities, 50 in the United States, 8 in Mexico, and 2 in Canada. Frontier commenced operations in July 1994 given two key opportunities in the external environment. First, a major