---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 173db48cfdcf685e8d8cf7a2f21553100af87dea
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## 8.3.2 Risks of Implementing 360-Degree Feedback Systems

We have discussed the many advantages of 360-degree feedback systems, but we should also consider that there are some risks involved.24 For example, negative feedback can hurt an employee’s feelings, particularly if those giving the feedback do not offer their comments in a constructive way. Second, the system is likely to lead to positive results only if individuals feel comfortable with the system and believe they will be rated honestly and treated fairly. User acceptance is an important determinant of the system’s success. Third, when very few raters are providing the information, say, two or three, it may be easy for the employee being rated to identify who the raters are. When anonymity is compromised, raters are more likely to distort the information they provide. Fourth, raters may become overloaded with forms to fill out because they need to provide infor- mation on so many individuals (peers, superiors, and subordinates). Finally, implementing a 360-degree feedback system should not be a one-time-only event. The system should be in place and data collected over time on an ongoing basis. The implementation of ongoing 360-degree feedback systems is sometimes labeled a 720-degree feedback system, referring to the fact that the collection of 360-degree data takes place at least twice. In short, administering the system only once will not be as beneficial as administering the system repeatedly.

The risks associated with implementing a 360-degree system can be illustrated by Watson Wyatt’s 2001 Human Capital Index (HCI).25 This is an ongoing study of the effects of HR practices on the stock value of more than 700 publicly traded companies. One particular result was especially alarming. Of the companies surveyed, those that had implemented 360-degree feedback had lower stock value! Specifically, the compa- nies that used peer reviews had 4.9% lower market value than did similar companies that did not implement peer reviews. Furthermore, companies that implemented upward feedback, where employees rated managers, had a 5.7% lower stock value than did similar companies that did not implement upward feedback. Does this necessarily mean that implementing 360-degree feedback systems causes the stock price to decrease? Based on the data collected, there is no definitive answer to this question. It could be that organizations that are not performing well financially decide to implement 360-degree feedback systems precisely to help improve their performance. Nevertheless, these results highlight the importance of following best practices in implementing 360-degree feedback systems in order to avoid any negative consequences of imple- menting such a system.
