---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 97594b391d3db457510b577efb89313ce4c3d91c
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Chapter 4 • Defining Performance and Choosing a Measurement Approach

that task performance is usually included in one’s job description. On the other hand, contextual performance behaviors are usually not role prescribed and, instead, are typically expected without making them explicit. Finally, task performance is mainly influenced by abilities and skills (e.g., cognitive, physical), whereas contextual perform- ance is mainly influenced by personality (e.g., conscientiousness).10

There are numerous pressing reasons why both task and contextual perform- ance dimensions should be included in a performance management system. First, global competition is raising the levels of effort required of employees. Thus, whereas it may have sufficed in the past to have a workforce that was competent regarding task performance, today’s globalized world and accompanying competitive forces make it imperative that the workforce also engage in positive contextual perform- ance. It is difficult to compete if an organization employs a workforce that does not engage in contextual behaviors. Second, related to the issue of global competition is the need to offer outstanding customer service. Contextual performance behaviors can make a profound impact on customer satisfaction. Imagine what a big difference it makes, from a customer perspective, when an employee puts in extra effort to sat- isfy a customer’s needs. Third, many organizations are forming employees into teams. Although some teams may not be permanent because they are created to com- plete specific short-term tasks, the reality of today’s world of work is that teams are here to stay. Interpersonal cooperation is a key determinant of team effectiveness. Thus, contextual performance becomes particularly relevant for teamwork. Fourth, in- cluding both task and contextual performance in the performance management sys- tem provides an additional benefit: Employees being rated are more satisfied with the system and believe the system is fairer if contextual performance is measured in addi- tion to task performance.11 It seems that employees are aware that contextual per- formance is important in affecting organizational effectiveness and, therefore, believe that these types of behaviors should be included in a performance management sys- tem in addition to the more traditional task performance. Finally, when supervisors evaluate performance, it is difficult for them to ignore the contextual performance dimension, even though the evaluation form they are using may not include any specific questions about contextual performance.12 Consequently, since contextual performance has an impact on ratings of overall performance even when only task performance is measured, it makes sense to include contextual performance more explicitly.13 Measuring contextual performance explicitly is also important because, unless carefully defined, it can be more subjective and subject to bias compared to measuring task performance.

Finally, there is an additional type of behavior that is another facet of contextual performance, but it is different from traditional ways of thinking about it: voice behavior.14 Voice behavior is a type of behavior that emphasizes expression of constructive challenge with the goal to improve rather than merely criticize, it challenges the status quo in a positive way, and it is about making innovative suggestions for change and recommending modifications to standard procedures even when others, including an employee’s super- visor, disagree. Consider an employee who has just been hired into your organization. This new colleague was recruited from a competitor, which is known to implement top-notch performance management practices. This employee, having the benefit of an outsider perspective, can point to processes that could be improved. For example, the new colleague may suggest that more feedback be given to the members of the team regarding
