## Chapter 1 • Performance Management and Reward Systems in Context

political and administrative leaders, where these socio-cultural norms have a clear influence on organizational decision making and practices.44 These institutional constraints that are so pervasive in Ghana and so many other emerging market countries must be taken into consideration in terms of what type of performance management sys- tem will be possible to implement as well as the effectiveness of such a system. However, regardless of the societal, institutional, and practical constraints, we should strive to place a check mark next to each of these characteristics: the more features that are checked, the more likely it will be that the system will live up to its promise.

- Strategic congruence. The system should be congruent with the unit and orga- nization’s strategy. In other words, individual goals must be aligned with unit and organizational goals.

- Context congruence. The system should be congruent with the organization’s culture as well as the broader cultural context of the region or country. The importance of context in implementing highly effective performance manage- ment systems is emphasized throughout the book. However, for now, consider the example of an organization that has a culture in which communication is not fluid and hierarchies are rigid. In such organizations, a 360-degree feedback system in which individuals receive comments on their performance from their subordi- nates, peers, and superiors would be resisted and likely not very effective. Regarding broader cultural issues, consider that performance management research published in scholarly journals has been conducted in about 40 countries around the world.45 Taken together, this body of work suggests that culture plays an important role in the effectiveness of a performance management system. For example, in countries such as Japan, there is an emphasis on the measurement of both behaviors (i.e., how people do the work) and results (i.e., the results of people’s work), whereas in the United States results are typically preferred over behaviors. Thus, implementing a results-only system in Japan is not likely to be effective. As a second illustration, a study including 97 multinational corporations suggested that they have adapted their performance management systems in their subsidiaries in Bulgaria and Romania.46 Specifically, although performance is measured similarly around the world (see standardization criterion below), the interpersonal aspects of the system are adapted and customized to the local culture. For example, performance management systems in the subsidiaries are more likely to differ from those in the headquarters as differences in power distance (i.e., degree to which a society accepts unequal distribution of power) increase between countries.

- Thoroughness. The system should be thorough regarding four dimensions. First, all employees should be evaluated (including managers). Second, all major job responsibilities should be evaluated (including behaviors and results; a detailed discussion of this topic is presented in Chapter 5). Third, the evaluation should include performance spanning the entire review period, not just the few weeks or months before the review. Finally, feedback should be given on positive perform- ance aspects as well as those that are in need of improvement.

- Practicality. Systems that are too expensive, time consuming, and convoluted will obviously not be effective. Good, easy-to-use systems (e.g., performance data are entered via user-friendly software) are available for managers to help