# Performance Assessment at ENSR

ENSR (http://www.ensr.aecom.com) is a full-service global provider of environmental and energy development services to industry and government. ENSR’s 2,000 professionals provide clients with consulting, engineering, remediation, and related services from more than 70 worldwide locations, including 45 in the United States. ENSR has created and utilizes a scorecard with six categories that are directly linked to its five-year vision: health and safety, employee engage- ment, client loyalty, cost management, profitability, and revenue growth. This information is used in the company’s evaluation of current performance for individuals and groups with a scorecard that shows current performance against “average” internal performance and “top 25 percent performance.” Managers are expected to utilize the scorecard in discussions about performance and to discuss the relationship between the metrics and the directives and initiatives from senior management. The scorecard is a tool used to motivate employees to achieve top performance and to provide a clear link between each individual and team activity to the strategic objectives of the organization. In summary, ENSR utilizes a balanced scorecard tool to assist managers in assessing and reviewing performance and ensuring a close link to the objectives of the organization.23

subordinates with honest and straightforward performance feedback. Only about 5% of the people raised their hands. Avoiding giving negative feedback is very dangerous because it conveys the message that mediocrity is acceptable and damages the morale of the top performers who are about four times as productive as the poor performers. In most cases, the appraisal meeting is regarded as a review of the past, that is, what was done (i.e., results) and how it was done (i.e., behaviors). For example, a survey including more than 150 organizations in Scotland showed that performance management systems in more than 80% of organizations emphasize the past.24 The appraisal meeting should also include a discussion of the employee’s developmental progress as well as plans for the future. The conversation should include a discussion of goals and development plans that the employee will be expected to achieve over the period before the next review session. In addition, a good appraisal meeting includes information on what new compensation, if any, the employee may be receiving as a result of his performance. In short, the appraisal discussion focuses on the past (what has been done and how), the present (what compensation is received or denied as a result), and the future (goals to be attained before the upcoming review session).

As noted earlier, the discussion about past performance can be challenging, partic- ularly when performance levels have not reached acceptable levels. Following is a script reflecting what the first few seconds of the appraisal meeting can be like.25

Good afternoon, Lucy, please have seat. As you know, we take performance very seriously, and we scheduled our meeting today to talk about the work you have done over the past year. Because we believe in the importance of talking about performance issues, I blocked an hour of my time during which I won’t take any phone calls and I also won’t be texting or emailing with any- one. I want to be able to focus 100% on our conversation because talking