## Chapter 6 • Gathering Performance Information

The sixth and final meeting, objective setting, includes setting goals, both behavioral and result oriented, regarding the following review period. At this point, the employee has received very clear feedback about her performance during the past review period, knows what rewards will be allocated (if any), understands developmental needs and goals, and knows about resources available to help in the process of acquiring any required skills.

Although these six meetings are possible, not all six take place separately. For example, the self-appraisal, classical performance review, merit/salary review, develop- mental plan, and objective setting meetings may all take place during one umbrella meeting. Nonetheless, it is best to separate the various types of information discussed so that the employee and the supervisor will focus on each of the components separately. Take the case of Johnsonville Foods (www.johnsonville.com), a sausage-making plant in Wisconsin. Johnsonville Foods has a performance management system that includes the following meetings: self-appraisal, classical performance review, merit/salary review, development plan, and objective setting.12 Team members (i.e., employees) and coaches (i.e., supervisors) write six-month contracts stating their goals for the following six months and how they plan to meet those goals (objective setting). This contract also asks the employee to state developmental goals for the upcoming six months (developmental plan). These goals may include reading a book on leadership or learning a new computer software program. In addition, each month the employee writes up a contract with his goals for the month. That contract is posted on the company electronic bulletin board and sent to three internal customers who evaluate that employee’s performance over the month. The next month, employees and their coaches discuss how the goals were met (classical performance review) and how much bonus the employee should receive (merit/salary review), and they set new goals for the upcoming month (objective setting). If the employee does not expect to meet his goals, a meeting is scheduled halfway through the month to discuss options.

In short, Johnsonville Foods includes all the formal meetings that can take place in a performance management system; however, it does not involve six separate meetings. Instead, the company holds only two formally scheduled meetings, but the system allows for the addition of more meetings if the need arises.