data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1574.md, before:

# praise to his employee.

After the successful completion of a three-month project at a large telecommuni- cations company, Ken, the manager, wants to congratulate Mike on a job well done. Ken calls Mike into his office one day after the project is completed.

KEN:

Thanks for stopping by Mike, and thank you for all of your hard work over the past three months. I know that I might not have congratulated you on every milestone you reached along the way, but I wanted to take the time to congratulate you now. Your organizational skills and ability to interact successfully with multiple departments led to the successful completion of the project on time and within budget.

MIKE:

Thanks, Ken. I have really been putting extra effort into completing this project on time.

KEN:

It shows, Mike, and I appreciate all of your hard work and dedication to this team and our department. Thanks again and congratulations on a great end to a long three months.

In this vignette, Ken delivered praise to Mike successfully and followed the recommendations provided earlier. He was sincere and made sure not to praise Mike

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1574.md, after:

---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9a1b3d1cefbbd6039eaf74a59d44b29a46a8f39c
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Chapter 9 • Performance Management Skills

performance. Finally, Andrea did not communicate to Matt whether this behavior was a one-time incident or whether it was a pattern that was affecting his overall work performance.

Overall, if Andrea continues to look for coaching opportunities with her employees, her relationship with her employees and their performance in the store will continue to improve. To be more effective, however, she may need to work on communicating the patterns of behavior that lead to poor performance and the consequences of continued poor performance.

9.3.2.1 PRAISE Good feedback includes information about both good and poor performance. Although most people are a lot more comfortable giving feedback on good performance than they are on poor performance, some guidelines must be followed when giving praise so that the feedback is useful in terms of future performance. First, praise should be sincere and given only when it is deserved. If praise is given repeatedly and when it is not deserved, employees are not able to see when a change in direction may be needed.31 Second, praise should be about specific behaviors or results and be given within context so that employees know what they need to repeat in the future. For example, a manager can say the following:32 “John, thanks for providing such excellent service to our client. Your efforts helped us renew our contract with them for another two years. It’s these types of behaviors and results that our group needs to achieve our goal for this year. And, this is exactly what our company is all about: providing outstanding customer service.” Third, in giving praise, managers should take their time and act pleased, rather than rush through the information looking embarrassed. Finally, avoid giving praise by referring to the absence of the negative, for example, “not bad” or “better than last time.” Instead, praise should emphasize the positives and be phrased, for example, as “I like the way you did that” or “I admire how you did that.”33

Consider the following vignette which illustrates how a manager might give
