---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 70a4ff5bf2f9a39a5877596e6226ac828db90560
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# 8.3 360-DEGREE FEEDBACK SYSTEMS

The 360-degree feedback system has become a preferred tool for helping employees, particularly those in supervisory roles, improve performance by gathering information on their performance from different groups.11 These systems are called 360-degree systems because information is gathered from individuals all around the employee. Specifically, information on what performance dimensions could be improved is gathered from superi- ors, peers, customers, and subordinates. This information is usually collected anony- mously to minimize rating inflation. Employees also rate themselves on the various performance dimensions and compare self-perceptions with the information provided by others. Agap analysis is conducted to examine the areas for which there are large discrep- ancies between self-perceptions and the perceptions of others. A360-degree feedback sys- tem report usually includes information on dimensions for which there is agreement that further development is needed. This information is used to create a developmental plan as described earlier in the chapter. For example, a study including over 2,000 managers demonstrated that the objectives included in personal developmental plans were driven by performance dimensions that received low scores in 360-degree feedback systems.12

The 360-degree feedback system is most helpful when it is used for develop- mental purposes only and not for administrative purposes.13 This is because people are more likely to be honest if they know the information will be used to help the individual improve and not to punish or to reward him or her. However, it is possible to implement such systems successfully for administrative purposes after they have been in place for some time—usually two years or so.14 The 360-degree feedback system is usually implemented for individuals who have supervisory roles, but these systems can be used for all positions within the organization.

Many organizations take advantage of technology to minimize the amount of paperwork and time involved in collecting such data. The Internet is becoming a pervasive medium by which to administer 360-degree feedback systems. The service provider, usually an outside consulting firm, sends an e-mail message with instructions and time frames for assessment to each employee to be rated. Then, employees can access a secure Web site and, after entering their personal IDs and passwords, create individual lists of raters who will be asked to provide feedback about their performance. To make things easier, the employee can even select names from a drop-down menu that includes company managers and employees. Allowing employees to select the raters who will provide information on their performance is likely to increase acceptance of the results.15 The raters selected are asked to visit the Web site and to provide performance feedback within a certain time period. After the data have been collected electronically, it is fairly easy to compile the results and e-mail a report to the employee who has been evaluated. Some Internet-based systems also provide online training for raters on how to com- plete the feedback forms in helpful and constructive ways. Some systems even include features that allow for the detection of rating errors. For example, a window may pop up if a rater gives the maximum score to an employee on all dimensions. Raters may even see a graph on the screen that shows the extent to which the ratings they have provided agree with the ratings provided by other people rating the same employee. Some systems even include an online virtual feedback coach to help create developmental plans. The final plan, however, must be consensually decided upon in a meeting between the employee and his supervisor. Unless the developmental plan has an employee’s complete accept- ance, it is likely to become another inconsequential HR-mandated task.16
