---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 94d28f158bc595175c416ffaa6d6f67c23a18a11
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
## Part IV • Reward Systems, Legal Issues, and Team Performance Management

performance improvement are taken more seriously. In other words, CP plans force organizations to define effective performance clearly and to determine what factors are likely to lead to effective performance. When a CP plan is implemented, organizations need to make clear what is expected of employees, what specific behaviors or results will be rewarded, and how employees can achieve these behaviors or results. This, in and of itself, serves an important communication goal because supervisors and employees are better able to understand what really matters. Also, high-achieving performers are attracted to organizations that reward high-level performance, and high-level performers are typically in favor of CP plans.6 This tendency is called the sorting effect: top performers are likely to be attracted to and remain within organizations that have implemented CP plans.7 An organization’s ability to retain its top performers is obviously crucial if an organization wants to win the talent war and have a people-based competitive advantage.8 For example, a study conducted at a glass installation company found that productivity improved by 44% when the compensation system was changed from salaries to individual incentives.9Acloser look at the data indicated that about 50% of the productivity improvement was due to the current employees being more productive, whereas the other 50% improvement was due to less productive employees quitting and the organization’s ability to attract and recruit more productive workers. Consequently, CP plans can serve as a good tool to recruit and retain top performers as a result of the sorting effect, which, in turn, can lead to greater productivity. Finally, CPplans can project a good corporate image because the organization has implemented a system of rewards that is fair and based on clearly communicated expectations and standards.

Hicks Waldron, former CEO of cosmetics giant Avon, in an eloquent statement, explained why CP plans are becoming so popular: “It took me 30 years to figure out that people don’t do what you ask them to do; they do what you pay them to do.” How about organizations that are struggling financially? Can they still implement CP plans? Can they afford to give performance-based rewards to their employees? The answer is yes to both questions. Making sure that top performers are rewarded appropriately can help keep them motivated and prevent them from leaving the organization in difficult times. It is these top performers who are the organization’s hope for recovery in the future. In fact, giving rewards to poor performers means that these rewards are taken away from high-level performers.10 Consider the case of Corning, Inc., a fiber-optic cable manufacturer (http://www.corning.com/). In 2002, sales were at an unprece- dented low level, and the stock price was just over $1, which was about 1% of its value in 2000. Corning had slashed more than 16,000 jobs in two years and had not been profitable since early 2001; nevertheless, they gave bonuses to employees who met performance goals during the year.11

Overall, CP plans enhance employee motivation to accomplish goals that match organizational needs. More specifically, CP plans have the potential to help people change behavior and improve performance. For example, assume an organization is trying hard to improve customer satisfaction. Some units in this organization decide to implement a CP plan that awards cash to employees who improve their customer satisfaction ratings. By contrast, other units continue with a traditional pay plan in which there is no clear tie between performance levels and rewards. Who do you think will perform better—employees under the CP plan or those under the traditional plan? Well, if all other things are equal, it is likely that employees under
