---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 577df125aa57838f4b6599e8c550bb9ba9061def
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# 10.6.1 Job Evaluation

Job evaluation is a process of data collection through which an organization can under- stand the worth of various jobs and, as a result, create a pay structure. Job evaluation includes a consideration of the skills, knowledge, and abilities that are required for each job, how valuable the job is for the organization, and how much pay other organiza- tions allocate to these jobs. Several job evaluation methods are available, but the most popular are ranking, classification, and point.30

Of the three, the ranking method is the fastest and simplest to implement. It consists of two steps. First, a job description is created for each job. As described in Chapter 2, a job description, which results from a job analysis, summarizes the job duties; needed knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs); and working conditions for each job. Second, job descriptions are compared to each other in terms of how valuable each job is for the organization. As a result of these comparisons, jobs are ranked from most to least valuable. The most valuable job will be given the highest pay, followed by the second most valuable job, and so forth. The ranking method requires little time, and minimal effort is needed to administer it. On the other hand, it has some drawbacks. First, the criteria for ranking may not be understood clearly. That is, evaluators may not share the same views regarding which criteria should be used to rank the various positions in terms of relative worth to the organization. Second, the distance between each rank is not necessarily equal. That is, the distance between the job ranked number 1 and the job ranked number 2 may not be the same as the distance between the number 2 job and the number 3 job. These unequal distances may not be reflected in the resulting differences in pay between the jobs.

The classification method also consists of two steps. First, a series of classes or job families are created. Each job class, sometimes referred to as a “grade,” has a unique label and includes a sufficiently detailed description of the work performed so that it will be easy to classify all individual jobs within one class. Second, each individual job is placed within a job class. The end result is a set of classes, each including several jobs. For example, the pay structure of the U.S. federal government includes 18 classes. Each class includes several jobs. For example, class 1 includes all jobs that are performed under immediate supervision, such as routine work in office, business, and fiscal operations, and the elementary work of a technical character in a professional, scientific, or technical field. This class, in turn, includes a number of jobs considered equal in terms of the contribution they make to the organization and, therefore, should be paid equally. Jobs falling in different classes are considered differently and are compensated differently. The classification method has several advantages, including the fact that jobs can be quickly slotted into the structure. In addition, classification levels are readily accepted by employees because they seem to be valid. On the other hand, the classification method requires extensive time and effort to administer, and, similar to the ranking method, differences between classification levels may not be equal.

The point method is the most time-consuming of the three, but it is the one that provides the most accurate results in terms of the pay scale for each job compared to all other jobs in the organization. The first step includes identifying compensable factors, or those characteristics of jobs that add value to the organization and for which the organization is willing to pay. For example, an organization may decide that four factors are important: skills required, experience required, responsibility, and working
