## Part I • Strategic and General Considerations

Casualty engaged in a very aggressive marketing campaign, which included retaining actor Dick Van Dyke as its company spokesperson. In spite of these efforts, however, internal focus groups revealed that while employees understood the organization’s strategic plan, they did not understand what role each person was supposed to play in helping the organization execute its strategy. In other words, employees did not have a clear understanding of how each person could help achieve the organization’s strategic goals, including focusing on the following three key areas: (1) distribution scope, scale, and productivity; (2) home office productivity and unit costs; and (3) product revenue and profitability.

Bankers Life and Casualty realized that a better link between strategy and indi- vidual and team performance could be established by improving its performance management process. The HR department, therefore, proceeded to overhaul the performance management system so that the three areas of strategic importance just outlined would be part of everyone’s performance evaluation and improvement efforts. The design and implementation of the new system was a joint venture between the HR and the communications departments. First, the HR and communications team spoke candidly with the CEO about his expectations. The CEO responded with overwhelming support, stating that the performance management system would be implemented for every employee on preestablished dates, and that he would hold his team accountable for making this happen. Then, to implement the performance management system, each unit met with its VP. During these meetings, each VP discussed how his or her unit’s goals were linked to the corporate goals. Next, HR and communications led discussions surrounding goal setting, giving feedback, and writing developmental plans. Managers were then given the opportunity to share any feedback, concerns, or questions that they had about the program. During this forum, managers exchanged success stories and offered advice to one another. These success stories were then shared with the CEO. The CEO then shared these stories with those who reported directly to him to strengthen the visibility of his support for the program.

In short, the performance management system at Bankers Life and Casualty helped all employees understand their contributions to the organization’s strategic plan. This was a key issue that motivated the CEO to give unqualified support to the system. This support gave a clear message to the rest of the organization that the performance management system was an important initiative. The support of the CEO and other top executives, combined with a high degree of participation from all employees and their ability to voice concerns and provide feedback regarding the system, was a critical factor in the success of the performance management system at Bankers Life and Casualty.