# 11.4.4 Performance Assessment

The fourth component of the performance management process is performance assess- ment. Each team member must evaluate one another’s performance as well as the performance of the overall team. Peer evaluations are a key component of the assess- ment stage because they lead to higher levels of workload sharing, cooperation, and performance.17 Also, team coordination and feedback improve when peers monitor the performance of all other members in the team. This, in turn, leads to the recognition of errors and to taking subsequent actions to correct these errors quickly.18 Peer evalua- tions can also include team members nominating someone else as the review period’s most valuable performer (MVP). In addition, the supervisor evaluates the performance of each team member as well as the team as a whole. Finally, members from other teams may also evaluate the performance of the team. This would apply only if members of other teams have firsthand experience with the performance of the team in question.

Involvement of each team member in the evaluation process increases the mem- bers’ ownership and commitment to the system. Self-appraisals also provide important information to be discussed during the performance review. In the absence of self- appraisals, it is often not clear to supervisors whether the team and its members have a real understanding of what is expected of them.

Similar to situations in which peers evaluate others regarding individual perform- ance outside of team contexts, the assessment phase is prone to biases. A study includ- ing 34 teams of about four members each found that team members were more lenient in rating one another when they had previously received positive peer feedback, and they were more severe in rating one another when they had previously received nega- tive peer feedback.19 Thus, it seems that receiving a positive rating from a peer leads to positive feelings, and receiving a negative rating from a peer leads to negative feelings, which translate into giving peers more positive and negative ratings, respectively. Accordingly, the model for rater motivation discussed in Chapter 6 as well as the train- ing programs conducted to minimize rating biases as discussed in Chapters 7, is appli- cable to team performance management systems.

In short, three types of performance need to be assessed: (1) individual performance or task performance, which refers to the specific activities required by one’s individual job, such as a programmer’s ability to write quality code; (2) individual performance or contex- tual performance, which refers to specific activities that contribute to team performance, such as team members cooperating with each other; and (3) team performance as a whole. Although the saying goes, “There is no ‘I’ in team,” this just isn’t so because teams consist of individuals with their individual motivation, needs, and talents. The system should include a good combination of both “me” and “we” considerations.20 Thus far, this book has addressed the “me” side of the equation by focusing on individual performance management. This includes both task and contextual performance (see Chapter 4).

How can we assess the “we” side of performance? As in the case of measures of individual performance, measures of team performance should include both results and behaviors. Team performance as a whole can be measured using the following four performance dimensions:21

- 1. Effectiveness. This is the degree to which results satisfy team stakeholders, including both internal and external customers. Results could be the same as those that are measured to evaluate individual performance. Specifically, these can include measures of quality, quantity, cost, and time.