data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1317.md, before:

## Chapter 7 • Implementing a Performance Management System 189

if an employee receives a low rating on the performance dimension “communication,” then there may be an automatic trigger so that the system suggests resources that the employee can use to address this performance dimension. For example, one such resource can be a learning module available online that teaches employees how to improve their communication skills. Another advantage of an online system is that it is easier to monitor unit-level and organization-level trends over time. Another advantage is automation. For example, a pop-up screen may appear on a supervisor’s screen upon logging on, and she may not be allowed to open any files until the performance evaluation is completed. How effective are online performance management systems in practice? In spite of the above mentioned benefits, it is important to evaluate whether the quality of evaluations improves and whether users are satisfied with the system. A recent study included 631 staff employees at a large U.S. university and provided a unique opportunity to evaluate the evaluation portion of the system in two modalities: (a) paper and pencil and (b) online. Results indicated that the online system had overall positive effects or, in some cases, null effects on employees perceptions of rater accountability, employee participation in the system, security and utility of the performance ratings, and satisfaction with the evaluation.36

One important issue to keep in mind is that online tools are simply a type of medium. Although they may add efficiency and bells and whistles to the system, ultimately the system’s success will depend on following best-practice recommenda- tions offered throughout this book. Taking advantage of online applications can help speed up processes, lower cost, and gather and disseminate information faster and more effectively. Thus, such tools can make a good system even better. On the other hand, systems that are not implemented following best practices will not necessarily improve by using online components. In fact, online implementation may lead to highly undesirable outcomes: a more complicated system that is simply a big waste of time and resources for all those involved.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis__chunk1317.md, after:

---
source_path: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c5bdbd1f1a37c18b76fd55d858094572321075aa
title: performance_management_3rd_edition_by_aguinis
---
# 7.7 ONLINE IMPLEMENTATION

The implementation of much of the interventions described in this chapter can be facili- tated by doing so online. For example, the communication plan can include e-mails as well as electronic newsletters. There can also be a Web site dedicated to the performance man- agement system that includes updates regarding the system. The appeals process can also include an online component, and there can be a dedicated Web site for employees to file appeals, if needed. Training raters can also be accomplished with the help of online tools. For example, there are FOR training programs that can be implemented fully online.35Also, as will be described in Chapter 8, performance ratings can be gathered using online tools. An important advantage of implementing performance management online is that the system can be linked to other HR functions such as training and selection. For example,
