---
source_path: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: aab1afa0fc024faa7f39199b0889d6ba4c0a38b5
title: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0
---
# November 1995 « American Psychologist

pencil and interactive video). Second-order confirmatory factor analysis (Marsh & Hocevar, 1988) may be especially helpful in this context.

To probe personality characteristics, pre-hire as- sessment procedures, especially those used by large or- ganizations, often include patterned behavior description interviews, in which candidates are asked to provide de- tailed accounts of actual situations (Alderman, 1995). For example, instead of asking, ““How would you reprimand an employee?” now it’s “Give me a specific example of a time you had to reprimand an employee. What action did you take, and what was the result?” Answers tend to be remarkably consistent with actual (i.e., subsequent) job behavior (Dipboye & Gaugler, 1993; Weekley & Gier, 1987).

Alternatively, interviewers may pose ““What would you do if. . .?” questions. Such questions compose the situational interview, which is based on the assumption that a person’s expressed behavioral intentions are related to subsequent behavior. In the situational interview, can- didates are asked to describe how they think they would respond in certain job-related situations. Validities for both types of interviews vary from about 0.22 to 0.28 (Motowidlo et al., 1992). This brings up the following questions. (a) Does it matter whether patterned behavior description interview questions or situational interview questions are administered face-to-face or by computer? (b) Do they (interview questions) measure the same con- structs and yield equivalent validities? (c) Will work sam- ples or situational tests be used more frequently to assess the compatibility of potential team members, especially members of self-managed work teams? Such procedures measure the ability to do, not just the ability to know. Group-based situational tests (e.g., the leaderless group discussion) have long been used in management selection (e.g., Bass, 1954). How should they be designed to fit the context of a self-managed team—whether intact or virtual?

“Why is it that I always get a whole person when what I really want is a pair of hands?” Henry Ford la- mented (Labich, 1994, p. 64). In today’s (and tomorrow’s) world of work, characteristics of the whole person—cog- nitive as well as personality—are required to improve continuously the business processes that satisfy the needs of internal and external customers. Managers know this, and increasingly they are turning to industrial and or- ganizational psychologists for answers.
