---
source_path: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4050e3119a1d80cdda86864b818cda5740bad2f6
title: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0
---
## Effects of Technology on Organizations and People

Fifty million workers use computers every day along with other products of the digital age—faxes, modems, cellular - phones, and E-mail. This is breaking down departmental barriers, enhancing the sharing of vast amounts of infor- mation, creating ‘virtual offices” for workers on the go, collapsing product development cycles, and changing the ways that organizations ‘service customers and relate to their suppliers and to their employees. To succeed and prosper in the changing world of work, companies need motivated, technically literate workers.

A caveat is in order here, however. It relates to the common assumption that because production processes have become more sophisticated, high technology can substitute for skill in managing a workforce. Beware of such a “logic trap.”” On the contrary, high technology actually makes the workforce even more important for success, as Pfeffer (1994) has noted,

This is because more skill may be necessary to operate the more sophisticated and advanced equipment, and with a higher level of investment per employee, interruptions in the process are increasingly expensive. This means that the ability to effectively operate, maintain, and repair equipment—tasks all done by first-

line employees—become even more critical. (p. 8)

Ideally, therefore, technology will help workers make de- cisions in organizations that encourage them to do so (“Workplace of the Future,” 1993). However, organiza- tions of the future will look very different from organi- zations of the past, as the next section illustrates.
