---
source_path: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7fd989b37ea41ba8d0650c39ee90891846622c0d
title: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0
---
# Selecting Employees

In the traditional paradigm, so-called “one-shot” selec- tion—placement programs worked as follows: analyze the job, identify relevant job performance criteria, identify job-related predictors of performance, validate predictors, and then select candidates who score highest on the set of validated predictors. As with job analysis, the tech- nology for working within this paradigm is also well de- veloped (see, e.g., Cascio, 1991; Guion, 1991; Schmitt & Borman, 1993).

I just described the problems associated with ana- lyzing jobs under a process-based organization of work. To compound those problems, consider that relatively few jobs in today’s economy are performed independently of others and that most are interdependent or coordinate in nature—that is, they are a function of group efforts, not just the sum of individual talents. For example, both Xerox Corporation and General Electric (GE) now de- velop new products through multidisciplinary teams that work in a single process, instead of vertical functions or departments. At GE a senior team of 9-12 people oversees nearly 100 processes or programs worldwide, from new product design to improvement of the yield on production machinery. The senior team—consisting of managers with multiple competencies rather than narrow specialists— exists to allocate resources and ensure coordination of the processes and programs. “They stay away from the day-to-day activities, which are managed by the teams themselves,” explains Harold Giles, manager of human resources in GE’s lighting business (“The Horizontal Corporation,” 1993, p. 79). That’s quite a change from the traditional role of a supervisor.

Let us add just one more complicating factor to this mix: In some cases workers will join intact work teams that stay together to perform different kinds of work, such as assembly of different models of an automobile, or dif- ferent products entirely, as under a flexible manufacturing system. In project-based work, such as research and de- velopment, consulting, legal defense, or movie production, “virtual” teams consisting of multidisciplinary players are created to work on a project and then are disbanded when the project is finished. In these cases, the nature of the work changes, as does the composition of the teams that do the work.

From the point of view of industrial and organiza- tional psychology, the challenge is to move beyond valid, job-based predictors because the work to be done changes constantly. This raises a number of research issues rele- vant to the selection of employees (including managers): How does the selection process influence team effective-
