---
source_path: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9b0787c87010e8187601aa4ecc42b9c4a034625a
title: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0
---
## Changes in the Structure and Design of Organizations

In today’s world of fast-moving global markets and fierce

competition, the windows of opportunity are often frus- tratingly brief (Byrne, 1993). The features that dominated

industrial society’s approach to designing organizations

929

throughout the 19th and 20th centuries—mass produc- tion and large organizations—are disappearing. Trends such as the following are accelerating the shift toward new forms of organization for the 2 {st century (Kiechel, 1993): (a) smaller companies that employ fewer people; (b) the shift from vertically integrated hierarchies to net- works of specialists; (c) technicians, ranging from com- puter repair persons to radiation therapists, replacing manufacturing operatives as the worker elite (see Barley, 1991); (d) pay tied less to a person’s position or tenure in an organization and more to the market value of his or her skills; (e) the change in the paradigm of doing busi- ness from making a product to providing a service; and (f) the redefinition of work itself—growing disappearance of “the job” as a fixed bundle of tasks (see Bridges, 1994) and increased emphasis on constantly changing work re- quired to fulfill the ever-increasing demands of customers. This will require constant learning, more higher order thinking, and the availability to work outside the standard hours of9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

In this emerging world of work, more and more or- ganizations will focus carefully on their core competencies and outsource everything else. They will be characterized by terms such as virtual, boundary-less, and flexible, with no guarantees to workers or managers. Hundreds of big companies have outsourced noncore operations: Conti- nental Bank Corporation has contracted its legal, audit, cafeteria, and mailroom operations to outside companies. American Airlines is doing the same with customer service jobs at 30 airports.

This approach to organizing is no short-term fad. The fact is, organizations are becoming leaner and leaner, with better and better trained ‘‘multispecialists” —those who have in-depth knowledge about a number of different aspects of the business. Eschewing narrow specialists or broad generalists, organizations of the future will come to rely on cross-trained multispecialists to get things done. One such group whose roles are changing dramatically is that of managers.
