## Wayne F, Cascio University of Colorado at Denver

Dramatic changes are affecting the world of work. Ex- amples include increased global competition, the impact of information technology, the re-engineering of business processes, smaller companies that employ fewer people, the shift from making a product to providing a service, and the growing disappearance of “the job’ as a fixed bundle of tasks. These trends are producing a redefinition of work itself. They provide great opportunitities for in- dustrial and organizational psychologists to contribute to the betterment of human welfare. This article identifies 6 key areas in which to start: job analysis, employee selec- tion, training and development, performance appraisal, compensation (including incentives), and organizational development. Relevant research in these areas can provide substantial payoffs for individuals, organizations, and so- ciety as psychology moves into the 21st century.

These changes reflect the impact of globalized prod- uct and service markets, coupled with increased domestic competition (largely fueled by deregulation in telecom- munications, airlines, and banking) and new business start-ups. By a wide margin, however, global competition is the single most powerful economic fact of life in the 1990s. In the relatively sheltered era of the 1960s, only 7% of the U.S. economy was exposed to international competition. In the 1980s, that number zoomed past 70%, and it will keep climbing (Gwynne, 1992). Today, one in five American jobs is tied directly or indirectly to inter- national trade. Merchandise exports are up more than 40% since 1986, and every $1 billion in U.S. merchandise exports generates approximately 20,000 new jobs. For the most part these are good jobs that pay about 22% more than average (“Investing in people,” 1994).

s citizens of the 20th century, we have witnessed more change in our daily existence and in our environment than anyone else who ever walked the planet. But if you think the pace of change was fast in this century, expect it to accelerate in the next one. The 21st century will be even more complex, fast paced, and turbulent. It will also be very different. Industrial and organizational psychology potentially has much to con- tribute to this new world of work. It has the potential to lead change rather than to simply react to it, but to do so it must seize opportunities to provide research-based answers to pressing organizational problems. This article is organized into two parts. The first part describes some of the dramatic changes that are affecting the world of work; the second proposes a research agenda in six key areas in which applied psychologists often practice. I begin by considering the changing nature of economic competition.