---
source_path: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 845e170abfe6524e5b7fa931702dc6d01cc8e826
title: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0
---
# November 1995 * American Psychologist

found that the belief that applicants would not have the work attitudes and behaviors needed to adapt to the work environment was almost twice as common a reason for rejecting applicants as the next most important factor. This raises several intriguing research questions:

If attitudes play such an important role in work per- formance, then constructs such as adaptability, consis- tency, and prosocial behavior become particularly im- portant components of workplace learning programs. To what extent can such characteristics.be taught? How should they be taught? To what extent can research find- ings in applied social psychology, cognitive psychology, and instructional technology inform training practice in these areas?

In designing training systems to promote team de- velopment and workplace learning, what are the most effective methods for developing skill, knowledge, and at- titudinal competencies (Cannon-Bowers, Tannenbaum, Salas, & Volpe, 1995)? Do results hold up when teams must operate in stable as opposed to rapidly changing environments?

Senior managers are looking for evidence of the ex- tent to which workers and managers can change their attitudes and behavior to fit new organizational designs. Research is needed to identify methods and activities that will facilitate and maintain such change. The relapse pre- vention model, a cognitive-behavioral model of self-con- trol strategies designed to reduce the likelihood of relapse, is a good place to start (Marx, 1982).
