---
source_path: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ab1b965cc8849888b3899b1d27e0e3cca0c50d62
title: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0
---
# Training and Development

The old Chinese proverb, “Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for life,” fits neatly into today’s emphasis on self-reliance

and career resiliency. Career-resilient workers are dedi- cated to continuous learning. They stand ready to reinvent themselves to keep pace with change, they take respon- sibility for their own career management, and they are committed to their company’s success (Waterman, Wa- terman, & Collard, 1994). This implies two things: (a)

Companies must make it easy for employees to learn and

933

to become flexible, and (b) workers should have the right to obtain ongoing training.

For example, at Sun Microsystems, a core value is

“We acknowledge the essential link between company growth and the development of individuals” (‘“Career,” 1994). To make this link a reality, Sun supports training and development activities in three areas: (a) assessment of interests, values, and temperament (to help employees understand who they are and where they are going); (b) assessment and development of technical and functional work skills (to help employees benchmark and improve their work performance); and (c) assessment and devel- opment of work strategies (to help employees understand and improve their performance in areas such as problem- solving and conflict resolution).

Compelling as the idea of training may seem, there are strong disincentives for implementing it. To illustrate, consider just three macrolevel structural issues in the de- sign and delivery of training (Cascio, 1994b):

- 1. Corporate commitment is lacking and uneven. Most companies spend nothing at all on training. Those that do spend tend to concentrate on managers, techni- cians, and professionals, not rank-and-file workers. Fully 89% of American workers never receive any formal train- ing from their employers (“Labor Letter,” 1991).

- 2. Poaching trained workers is a major problem for U.S. businesses and provides a strong disincentive for training. Unlike in Germany, where local business groups pressure companies not to steal one another’s employees, there is no such system in the United States (Salwen, 1993). This has profound consequences for “‘selling” se- nior managers on the value of training in the United States.

- 3. Despite the rhetoric about training being viewed as an investment, current accounting rules require that it be treated as an expense. Business might spend more on training if accounting rules were revised. Unlike in- vestments in plant and equipment, which show up on the books as an asset, training expenditures are seen merely as expenses to be deducted in the year they are incurred (“Labor Letter,” 1991).

Industrial and organizational psychologists have little control over these macrolevel problems. However, there is much that they can contribute. For example, with re- spect to the poaching problem, it is important to point out the “training paradox,” as described by Robert Wa- terman (Filipczak, 1995). The paradox runs both ways. That is, if employees take charge of their own employa- bility by keeping their skills updated and varied so they can work for anyone, de facto they build more job security with their current employer—assuming the employer values highly skilled, motivated employees. Similarly, the company that provides lots of training and learning op- portunities is more likely to retain workers because it creates an interesting and challenging environment. In theory, therefore, increasing an individual’s employability outside a company simultaneously increases his or her job security and desire to stay with the current employer.

934

A related area in which psychologists can contribute on the basis of strong inferences from data is that of train- ing evaluation. The literature on training evaluation shows that whereas the potential returns from well-conducted training programs can be substantial, there is often con- siderable variability in the effectiveness with which any given training method or content area is implemented (Cascio, 1994a). Considerable planning (through needs analysis) and follow-up program evaluation efforts are necessary to realize these returns. Both needs analysis and program evaluation are well-developed areas in in- dustrial and organizational psychology (Goldstein, 1989, 1994; Kraiger, Ford, & Salas, 1993).

For example, one issue that often vexes employers is whether to spend money on reskilling programs for older workers with shorter payback periods. Another is whether to invest in training for the hard-core unem- ployed or for workers who lack basic literacy skills. In both cases, business sees lower payback probabilities. Utility analyses can play an important role in dispelling myths about the costs of training relative to its benefits. The technology is available now to do such analyses (Cas- cio, 1989), and a number of them already have been re- ported in the personnel psychology literature (Cascio, 1994a). However, what generally has not been reported, and that will be essential in the future, is objective evi- dence of the extent to which the financial returns fore- casted by utility analyses actually do materialize.

One area in which objective evidence does indicate positive payoffs for individual and organizational perfor- mance is that of high-performance work practices (HPWPs), of which training is an integral component. Such practices provide workers with the information, skills, incentives, and responsibility to make decisions es- sential for innovation, quality improvement, and rapid response to change (U.S. Department of Labor, 1993). A recent study based on a national sample of nearly 1,000 publicly-traded firms found that HPWPs have an eco- nomically and statistically significant impact both on employee turnover and productivity on short-term and long-term measures of corporate financial performance (Huselid, 1995).

Earlier I showed how the roles of workers and man- agers are changing dramatically, from controlled to em- powered, from boss to mentor. Both groups will require extensive training and support to change entrenched at- titudes and beliefs to function effectively in the new world of work. For example, empowered employees need to de- velop the kind of understanding of business and financial issues that no one but an owner or an executive used to be concerned with (Bridges, 1994). Moreover, several studies have supported the novel proposition that the “skills gap” is really about attitudes (Cappelli, 1992). Thus a 1989 employer survey by Towers Perrin found that the most common reasons for firing new employees were ab- senteeism and failure to adapt to the work environment; only 9% of the workers were dismissed because of diffi- culties in learning how to perform their jobs. A 1990 survey by the National Association of Manufacturers
