## market conditions. In this kind of an environment, a key

job for all managers, especially top managers, is to artic- ulate a vision of what the organization stands for and what it is trying to accomplish. The next step is to trans-

late that vision into everything that is done and to use the vision as a benchmark to assess progress over time.

A large and growing number of organizations now

recognize that they need to emphasize workplace de- mocracy to achieve the vision. This involves breaking down barriers, sharing information, using a collaborative approach to problem solving, and an orientation toward continuous learning and improvement. For many man- agers, these kinds of skills simply weren’t needed in or- ganizations designed and structured under 3-C logic.

Does this imply that we are moving toward a uni- versal model of organizational and leadership effective-

ness? Hardly. Contingency theories of leadership such as path-goal theory (House, 1971), normative decision the- ory (Vroom & Yetton, 1973), or least-preferred coworker (LPC) contingency theory (Fiedler, 1967) suggest that an autocratic style is appropriate in some situations. In recent years many organizations (e.g., Eaton Corporation and Levi Strauss & Co.) have instituted formal information- sharing and workplace education programs that reduce or eliminate a key condition that makes autocratic lead- ership appropriate—workers who lack the information or knowledge needed to make meaningful suggestions or decisions. More often, today’s networked, interdependent, culturally diverse organizations require tranformational leadership (Bass, 1985). The ability of leaders to transform followers to bring out their creativity, imagination, and best efforts requires well-developed interpersonal skills, founded on an understanding of human behavior in or- ganizations. Industrial and organizational psychologists are well-positioned to help managers develop these kinds of skills.

In addition, although by no means universal, much of the work that results in a product, service, or decision is now done in teams—intact, identifiable social systems (even if small or temporary) whose members have the authority to manage their own task and interpersonal processes as they carry out their work. Such teams go by a variety of names—autonomous work groups, process teams, and self-managing work teams. All of this implies a radical reorientation from the traditional view of a manager’s work.

In this kind of an environment, workers are acting more like managers, and managers more like workers. The managerial roles of controllers, planners, and in- spectors are being replaced by coaches, facilitators, and mentors (Wellins, Byham, & Wilson, 1991). This doesn’t just happen—it requires good interpersonal skills, con- tinuous learning, and an organizational culture that sup- ports and encourages both.

Flattened hierarchies also mean that there are fewer managers in the first place. The empowered worker will be a defining feature of such organizations.