---
source_path: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b2c86de36c01d3283a9a0b9d67434d2545c4a7fd
title: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0
---
# Organizational Development

Organizational development (OD) can be described broadly as the use of planned, behavioral science-based interventions in work settings for the purpose of improv- ing organizational functioning and individual develop- ment (Porras & Robertson, 1992). At its core, OD is about change, and in the future world of work, “the core com- petitive advantage for companies will be their capacity for mastering revolutionary change at all levels of the organization” (Tichy, 1994).

For many organizations, this will require a meta- morphosis into a “learning organization.” Yet as com- pelling a notion as that is, in-depth interviews with 350 executives in 14 industries found that in attempting to implement change, from work redesign to organization culture, many firms had not learned from their past mis- takes, or else somehow felt doomed to repeat them (Ar- thur D. Little, Inc., 1994). As many as 70%-80% of change initiatives had failed; 40% of the executives sur- veyed were very unhappy, finding change too slow or patchy; there were no significant benefits from the change initiatives; and 80% of the companies expected to be going through other major changes within a few years.

These results are not encouraging, but they certainly increase opportunities and raise some important research issues for industrial and organizational psychologists. These issues span two broad areas: planning for change (based on theory) and implementing change (based on practice). With respect to planning, the most pressing need is to develop a well-specified theory about the process of organizational change. Indeed, a comprehensive review of literature in the field of OD concluded, “It is a major weakness of the field that, as a group, the theories sup- posed to define the dynamics of the planned change pro- cess are so vague” (Porras & Robertson, 1992, p. 760). Specifically, two types of research are needed:

- 1. Identification and specification of alternative models of organizations on which to base change process theories. As has been shown, both the structure and va- riety of organizational forms are changing dramatically as organizations strive to meet the ever-changing demands of the marketplace. Change process theory is not keeping
