# Changing Nature of Economic Competition

The results of accelerated global competition have been almost beyond comprehension—free political debate throughout the former Soviet empire, democratic reforms in Central and South America, the integration of the Eu- ropean community, the North American Free Trade Agreement, and an explosion of free market entrepre- neurship in Southern China. In short, the free markets and free labor markets that we in the United States have enjoyed throughout our national history have now be- come a global passion (Doyle, 1992).

There is no going back. Today, firms and workers in America must compete for business with firms and work- ers in the same industries in England, France, and Ger- many; in Poland, Hungary, and the former Russian re- publics; in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, and Chile; and in Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong, and China, just to name a few of our competitors. How- ever, it takes more than trade agreements, technology, capital investment, and infrastructure to deliver world- class products and services. It also takes the skills, inge- nuity, and creativity of a competent, well-trained work- force. Our competitors know this, and they are spending unstintingly to create one.

Just as wars—two World Wars, the Korean conflict, Viet- nam, and Desert Storm—dominated the geopolitical map of the 20th century, economics will rule over the 21st. The competition that is normal and inevitable among nations increasingly will be played out, not in aggression or war but in the economic sphere. The weapons used will be those of commerce: growth rates, investments, trade blocs, and imports and exports (Nelan, 1992).

Editor’s note. William C. Howell served as action editor for this article.

Author’s note. Portions of this article were presented as part of a pres- identi address to the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psy- chology at its Eighth Annual Convention, San Francisco, May 1993.

Correspondence eqncerning this article should be addressed to Wayne F. Cascio, Graduate School of Business, University of Colorado— Denver, Campus Box 165, P.O. Box 173364, Denver, CO 80217-3364.

928

November 1995 « American Psychologist Copyright 1995 by the American Psychological Association, Inc. 0003-066X/95/$2.00 Vol. 50, No. 11, 928-939