---
source_path: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1ea37b05a3185b449d33a5c4eb5f9e041b406dea
title: pii_s0003_066x_02_01251_0
---
# appraisal:

- 1. Traditionally, the immediate supervisor is re- sponsible for rating subordinates (Bernardin & Beatty, 1984; Murphy & Cleveland, 1991). New organizational designs that incorporate self-managed work teams or manufacturing “cells” (small teams of workers) may not have an immediate supervisor. Research is needed to provide answers to questions such as Who should rate performance under these circumstances and on what cri- teria? What should be the relative role (if any) of custom- ers or suppliers? McIntyre and Salas (1995) have identified a number of behavioral indicators of team performance, and their work can help guide future research in this area. 2. To create greater allegiance to a process, rather than to a boss, GE has begun to put in place so-called **360—-degree appraisals” in which peers and others above and below the employee evaluate the performance of an individual in a process (‘““The Horizontal Corporation,” 1993; see also Tornow, 1993). Research is needed to iden- tify the relative weights of the various raters as well as optimal means for combining information. Moreover, given that multiple perspectives are represented (e.g.,

peers, subordinates, and supervisors), and that each is best able to rate different aspects of performance (Bor- man, 1974; Mabe & West, 1982), what should each rater rate?

- 3. In work that is highly coordinate in nature (e.g.,

grant proposal writing and process reengineering), it is simply not possible to disaggregate individual from team performance. Although individual behaviors can be rated (e.g., initiative, flexibility, and effort), individual outcomes cannot. As McIntyre and Salas (1995) pointed out, team-

work and task work are distinct. Research is needed to identify the components and mechanics of team-based performance appraisal.

- 4. What is the most appropriate format and method for communicating performance feedback when multiple perspectives are represented? Should a single individual serve as the conduit for such feedback? Who is responsible

- 4. What is the most appropriate format and method for communicating performance feedback when multiple perspectives are represented? Should a single individual serve as the conduit for such feedback? Who is responsible

935

for following up to ensure that goals are set and progress is monitored? What is the long-term impact of such feed- back on behavior and work outcomes (Smither et al., 1995)?

Answers to these kinds of questions are particularly relevant to the changing world of work. Industrial and organizational psychologists have the tools and know-how to advance cumulative knowledge in this area while mak- ing genuine contributions to better management of hu-
