# November 1995 « American Psychologist

The Empowered Worker—No Passing Fad It should be clear by now that we are in the midst of a revolution—a revolution at work. Change isn’t coming only from large, high-profile companies doing high-tech- nology work. It has also permeated unglamorous, low- tech work. As an example, consider Toronto-based Cadet Uniform Services, which outfits the employees of some of North America’s leading corporations (Henkoff, 1994). Cadet doesn’t just hire people to drive trucks, deliver clean uniforms, and pick up dirty ones. Rather, its concept of customer service representatives (CSRs) extends much further. They are mini-entrepreneurs who design their own routes, manage their own accounts, and, to a large extent, determine the size of their paychecks.

Cadet ties compensation almost entirely to measures of customer satisfaction. Lose a customer on your watch and your salary sinks. CSR pay is about $40,000 a year, nearly twice the industry average. In practice, Cadet rarely loses a customer; its annual defection rate is less than 1%. Employees don’t leave either; turnover is a low 7%. Toa large extent this is because Cadet spends considerable time and effort on selecting employees—who take pride in their work, are exceedingly neat, and are outgoing. In all, 46 ethnic groups are represented at Cadet.

How has the company done? Its annual growth has averaged 22% for the past 20 years, and it boasts double- digit profit margins that exceed the industry norm. Says Quentin Wahl, chief executive officer, ““The jobs we do aren’t so special—the pay is good, but it’s not great. The main thing we have to sell to employees is the culture of the organization” (Henkoff, 1994, p. 122).

Organizations of the 1990s, both large and small, differ dramatically in structure, design, and demographics from those of even a decade ago. Demographically, they are far more diverse. They comprise more women at all levels, more multiethnic, multicultural workers, more older workers, workers with disabilities, robots, and con- tingent workers. Paternalism is out; self-reliance is in. There’s constant pressure to do more with less and steady emphasis on empowerment, cross-training, personal flexibility, self-managed work teams, and continuous learning. Workers today have to be able to adapt to changing circumstances and be prepared for multiple ca- reers. Industrial and organizational psychologists are helping to educate prospective, current, and former workers to these new realities. In the future, they will be

expected to do much more, as I describe later, but first I consider some organizational responses to these new real- ities.