# Rev J Autism Dev Disord (2019) 6:413–421

procedural fidelity are worthy areas of future exploration. Such tools may also be helpful for identifying existing em- ployees who are in need of additional support.

Another strategy for improving retention is evaluating whether ongoing organizational practices play a role in staff retention. Findings of the current review suggest that em- ployers should give special consideration to ongoing support of their staff. For instance, incorporating evidence-based in- terventions to improve coping strategies (Griffith et al. 2014) and self-efficacy (Gibson et al. 2009) may be beneficial.

Perceived supervisor support received the most attention across the included studies and was found to be correlated with burnout (Gibson et al. 2009; Hurt et al. 2013), job satis- faction (Hurt et al. 2013), and intention to turnover (Kazemi et al. 2015). While perceived supervisor support was not al- ways found to be significant (Griffith et al. 2014), overall, it appears to be meaningful. Perceived supervisor support was even found to moderate the effects of work demands on burn- out (Gibson et al. 2009) and partially mediate the effects of personality traits on job satisfaction (Hurt et al. 2013). Perceived supervisor support was also found to increase self- efficacy in behavior technicians (Gibson et al. 2009). Given the benefits of perceived supervisor support, future research should investigate variables that may result in improved sat- isfaction with supervision in behavior technicians (e.g., fre- quency of clinic meetings and mentor meetings, management style).

While staff training was only directly explored by one of the reviewed articles, it may be a promising area for further investigation. Kazemi et al. (2015) found greater levels of satisfaction with training to be correlated with less intention toturnoverinbehaviortechniciansand foundsatisfactionwith staff training to correlate with reported hours of initial training with 30 h or more corresponding with satisfaction. Furthermore, the significance of commitment to philosophy on burnout and self-efficacy may signify that theoretical- focused training, as opposed to procedural-focused training, may be beneficial (Gibson et al. 2009).

Like satisfaction with supervision and training, organiza- tionalvariableswereoftenmeasuredviaemployeeperception. In some cases, both subjective and objective measures of or- ganizational variables were explored. For instance, satisfac- tion with pay was found to be a predictor of intent to turnover; however, actual pay did not correlate with satisfaction of pay and actual pay was not found to be a predictor of intention to turnover (Kazemi et al. 2015). Similarly, report of being under scheduled was correlated with intention to turnover in behav- ior technicians while number of hours worked per week was not found to be correlated with intention to turnover (Kazemi et al. 2015). Contrasting findings between objective measures versus subjective measures help to illuminate the subjective nature of these drivers of intention to turnover. It appears that an individualized approach may be beneficial. For instance,

considering the percentage of an employee’s available hours worked per weekmay be more valuable than considering their total number of hours worked.

Patient- and student-related factors were explored the least in the reviewed research. Although no factors were identified as significant (Gibson et al. 2009; Kazemi et al. 2015), this area may warrant further investigation. Challenging behav- iors, for instance, have been found to impact burnout in spe- cialeducationteachersandsupport staffofindividualswithID (Hastings and Brown 2002). While behavior technician report of ASD severity was not found to be a predictor of intention to turnover (Kazemi et al. 2015), ASD severity as measured on standardized assessments and child progress may warrant fu- ture investigation. Future research should explore whether various patient characteristics (challenging behaviors, symp- tom severity, rate of progress) contribute to turnover. Such findings may be helpful when considering case assignment, particularly for newly hired behavior technicians.

Some limitations should be considered when interpreting the findings of the current review. First, research evaluating predictors of job retention, turnover, burnout, and job satisfac- tion in behavior technicians is sparse. For the most part, find- ings have not been replicated and should be interpreted with caution. In addition, the current review included behavior technicians working in diverse settings. While treatment set- ting was not found to be related to intention to turnover (Kazemi et al. 2015), school and home settings certainly place differing work demands on behavior technicians. Another limitation is that the behavior technicians in this review were from diverse geographical regions, which may impact the samples differently (e.g., laws concerning work conditions). Finally, no studies investigated actual turnover in behavior technicians. While predictors of burnout, job satisfaction, and intention to turnover were identified in the current review, it is unknown whether these factors are truly related to staff retention. Longitudinal and retrospective analyses of predic- tors of actual turnover are warranted. Nevertheless,the current review gives meaningful recommendations for how em- ployers may improve their practices.