data/clean/provided_by_the_author_s_and_nui_galway_in_accordance_with_publisher_policies_pl__chunk0104.md, before:

## Spender, J.C. (1989) Industry Recipes, Oxford, Blackwell.

33

Stahl, G. K., Bjorkman, I., Farndale, E., Morris, S. S., Stiles, P., Trevor, J. & Wright, P. M. (2007) Global Talent Management: How Leading Multinationals Build and Sustain Their Talent Pipeline, Faculty & Research Working Paper. Fontainebleau, France, INSEAD.

Tsui, A. S., Pearce, J. L., Porter, L. W., & Tripoli, A. M. (1997). Alternative approaches to the employee organization relationship: Does investment in employees pay off? Academy of Management Journal, 40:1089-121.

Van Dyne, L. Graham, J.W. and Dienesch, R.M. (1994) “Organizational citizenship behavior: Construct redefinition, measurement and validation”, Academy of Management Journal, 37, 765–802.

Van Maanen, J. (ed.) (1977) Organizational Careers: Some new perspectives, New York, Wiley.

Verquer, M.L., Beehr, T.A. and Wagner, S.H. (2003) “A meta-analysis of relations between person-organizational fit and work attitudes”, Journal of Vocational Behaviour, 63, 473-89.

Vilela, B.B., Gonzalez, J.A.V. and Ferrin, P.F. (2008) “Person-organization fit, OCB and performance appraisal: Evidence from matched supervisor-salesperson data set in a Spanish context”, Industrial Marketing Management, 37, 1005-1019

Vroom, V. H. (1964). Work and motivation. New York: Wiley

Wall, T.D and Wood, S.J. (2005) “The romance of human resource management and business performance and the case for big science”, Human Relations, 58, 429-62.

Weick, K. E. and Berlinger, L. R. (1989). 'Career improvisation in self-designing organizations. In: Arthur, M. B., Hall, D. T. and Lawrence, B. S. (Eds) Handbook of Career Theory, Cambridge, University Press, New York, pp. 313-328.

Wright, P.M. and McMahon, G.C. (1992) “Theoretical Perspectives for Strategic Human Resource Management”, Journal of Management, 18, 295-320.

Wright, P.M., McMahan, G.C., & McWilliams, A. (1994). “Human resources as a source of sustained competitive advantage: A resource-based perspective”, International Journal of Human Resource Management, 5, 301-326.

Wood, S.J. (1999) “Human resource management and performance”, International Journal of Management Reviews, 1, 367-413.

34

35

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/provided_by_the_author_s_and_nui_galway_in_accordance_with_publisher_policies_pl__chunk0104.md, after:

---
source_path: provided_by_the_author_s_and_nui_galway_in_accordance_with_publisher_policies_pl.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 380c194a5657681e9751cf0704a09de65f0240ab
title: provided_by_the_author_s_and_nui_galway_in_accordance_with_publisher_policies_pl
---
# Harvard Business School Press.

Pfeffer, J. (1994) Competitive Advantage Through People: Unleashing the power of the workforce, Boston MA, Harvard Business School Press.

Pfeffer, J. and Leblebici, H. (1973) “executive Recruitment and the Development of Interfirm Organizations”, Administrative Science Quarterly, 18, 449-461.

Powell, W.W. (1990) “Neither Market nor Hierarchy: Network forms of Organization”, Research in Organization Behavior, 12, 295-336.

Rao, H. and Drazin, R. (2002) “Overcoming resource constraints on product innovation by recruiting talent from rivals: A study of the mutual fund industry, 1986-94”, Academy of Management Review, 45, 491-507.

Ready, D.A. and Conger, J.A. (2007) “Make your company a talent factory”, Harvard Business Review, June, 69-77.

Schuler, R.S. (1989) “Strategic Human Resource Management and Industrial Relations”, Human Relations, 42, 157-184.

Schuler, R.S. and Jackson, S.E. (1987) “Linking competitive strategies and human resource management practices”, Academy of Management Executive, 1(3), 207-19.

Smart, B. D. (1999). Topgrading: How leading companies win by hiring, coaching, and keeping the best people. Paramus, NJ: Prentice Hall Press.

Smilansky, J. (2006) Developing Executive Talent: Best practices from global leaders, Chichester, John Wiley.

Smith, C. A., Organ, D. W., and Near, J. P. (1983) “Organizational citizenship behavior: Its nature and antecedents”, Journal of Applied Psychology, 68, 653–663.

Somaya, D. and Williamson, I.O. (2008) “Rethinking the ‘war for talent’”, MIT Sloan Management Review, 49, 4, 29-34.

Sparrow, P. (2007) “Globalization of HR at function level: four UK-based case studies of the international recruitment and selection process”, International Journal of Human Resource Management, 18, 845 – 67.
