data/clean/R0311F-PDF-ENG__chunk0077.md, before:

# Our Research

This article is based on extensive field re- search into more than 60 manufacturing and service companies, where we interviewed se- nior and middle managers about their orga- nizational strategies and performance mea- surement systems. Since the data obtained from these companies are proprietary, we have kept company names confidential.

In 14 of the companies, we investigated the

extent to which nonfinancial performance measures that were chosen on the basis of their supposed ability to affect future finan- cial performance actually had the expected relationship. Executives at each of these com- panies gave us detailed descriptions of the fi- nancial and nonfinancial measures they be-

lieved to be the key drivers of their organization’s economic performance. We then statistically evaluated whether these drivers really affected their companies’ per- formance.

We supplemented our field research with

two surveys of performance measurement practices. The first survey, in which a market research firm obtained data from 157 chief fi- nancial officers and other senior executives in a broad range of industries, was con- ducted jointly by the Wharton School and PricewaterhouseCoopers. The aim of the sur- vey was to determine the types of perfor- mance measures these executives used, to what extent they tried to assess the relation-

ship between nonfinancial measures and fu- ture economic performance, and to what ex- tent they developed and adopted business models that established causal links between the company’s financial and nonfinancial measures.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/R0311F-PDF-ENG__chunk0077.md, after:

---
source_path: R0311F-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3297341560bac6082844a7234b86930de7995279
title: R0311F-PDF-ENG
---
## Coming Up Short on Nonfinancial Performance Measurement

sured total employee turnover, while others measured only voluntary turnover. Such in- consistencies make it hard for top manage- ment to assess overall progress or to compare one unit’s performance with another’s.

Sometimes the problem lies in the nature of the thing being measured. Most businesses have trouble discovering how they are doing at such elusive endeavors as developing leader- ship or maintaining supplier relations. Nearly half of all Balanced Scorecard users surveyed by Towers Perrin said they had difficulty quan- tifying qualitative results. One unfortunate re- sponse to these frustrations is to avoid measur- ing altogether the “hard to measure.” In fact, a Conference Board study found that for 55% of the senior executives it surveyed, the leading obstacle to implementing strategic-perfor- mance measurement systems was an unwill- ingness to measure activities that posed this problem. And many of the companies that did try to track more qualitative measures ignored them when making decisions. When we asked managers why they chose to overlook them, the typical response was lack of trust in mea- sures that were unproven and therefore sub- ject to favoritism and bias. Although such wariness saves companies from relying on mis- leading results, it also denies them a compre- hensive picture of their performance.

Doing It Right At the root of these four mistakes is the failure to discover which nonfinancial factors have

the most powerful effects on long-term eco- nomic performance. The root of the solution, therefore, is to base decision making on a well- established series of links. By following the steps listed below, companies should be able to realize the full promise of nonfinancial per- formance measures.

The first step is to develop a causal model based on the hypothe- ses in the strategic plan. Unfortunately, how- ever, many companies’ strategic plans are more like mission or vision statements than road maps. In the absence of strategic clarity and concrete detail, managers are prone to disagree about which performance areas are critical to success, and that can make consen- sus about the causal model difficult to reach. If that’s the case, it’s best to test a couple of different causal models. Once its merits have been proven, the model finally chosen will be hard to argue with and will be the source of broad-based agreement about strategy.

Develop a causal model.

Most companies al- ready track large numbers of nonfinancial measures in their day-to-day operations. So to avoid going to the trouble of collecting data that already exist, companies should take careful inventory of all their databases. This inventory should not limit itself to perfor- mance measurement systems but should ex- tend to any information systems (such as pur- chasing, manufacturing control, and customer service) that may contain useful data on key performance drivers. One important byprod-

Pull together the data.
