data/clean/R0510D-PDF-ENG__chunk0107.md, before:

# The Office of Strategy Management

It’s simplest to place the office of strategy management on a par with functions that report directly to the CEO. The office serves, in effect, as the CEO’s chief of staff.

as ﬁnance and marketing, that report directly to the CEO. The OSM serves, in effect, as the CEO’s chief of staff. But if the OSM has origi- nated within a powerful function, such a posi- tioning may not be feasible. In that case, the OSM will usually report to the chief of the function in which it is nested—such as the CFO or vice president of strategic planning— but with occasional direct access to the CEO. At the Mexican insurance company Grupo Na- cional Provincial (GNP), for example, the OSM reports both to the chief executive and to the chief ﬁnancial ofﬁcer. The OSM sets the agenda for a weekly meeting with the CEO and CFO and for a broader weekly meeting with the six top company executives. The ofﬁce of strategy management at GNP also has a ma- trixed relationship with 20 Balanced Score- card managers in the two major business units and nine support units and with the owners of the major strategic initiatives. The relationship enables the OSM to coordinate the strategic planning done in the business and support units.

The OSM may be an important functional unit, but it doesn’t have to be large; it is cer- tainly not our goal to encourage companies to build a new bureaucracy. Although Chrysler employs 13 full-time people in its OSM, re- ﬂecting the unit’s involvement in product de- velopment, our experience suggests that ﬁrms with sales of $500 million to $5 billion and 1,000 to 10,000 employees can get by with fewer than ten people. In principle, as the ex- hibit on the previous page shows, a fully func- tioning OSM should not need more than six to eight full-time-equivalent positions to cope with its activities.

We have observed that establishing an OSM

does not usually involve hiring expensive new talent. The OSM is typically staffed with peo- ple who led the Balanced Scorecard project— they often come from the planning and ﬁ- nance functions, but some come from other staff groups such as quality, HR, and IT. Several organizations we studied have reported that the people assigned to their OSMs do not con- stitute a net increase in the organization’s head count. In many cases, the evolution of a well- functioning OSM actually helps reduce overall head count, thanks to the OSM’s role in streamlining and focusing management pro- cesses and helping managers eliminate layers of staff engaged in data gathering and report- ing. The OSM, however, should be assessed by the value it creates through successful strategy execution, not by whether it can reduce head count.

- • • Many organizations have achieved dramatic performance improvements by sustaining a focus on implementation of strategy. We have captured and codiﬁed a body of knowledge from these successful organizations that pro- vides the foundation for an emerging profes- sional function focusing on the management of strategy. An ofﬁce of strategy management that is positioned at the level of other senior corporate staff ofﬁces and has responsibility for managing and coordinating all the key strategy management processes can help com- panies realize the beneﬁts from this body of knowledge.

Reprint R0510D To order, see the next page or call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500 or go to www.hbrreprints.org

harvard business review • october 2005

page 10

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/R0510D-PDF-ENG__chunk0107.md, after:

---
source_path: R0510D-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0d987711c042165ee1ab7f8a352becc839940600
title: R0510D-PDF-ENG
---
# b u P

Positioning and Stafﬁng the OSM Executing strategy usually involves making changes that only a CEO can empower, and the OSM will be most effective when it has direct access to the CEO. Barbara Possin, the director of strategic alignment at St. Mary’s Duluth Clinic, told us she was able to overcome resis- tance to her initiatives because managers knew she had a direct reporting line to the company’s chief operating and chief executive ofﬁcers. An OSM buried deep in the ﬁnance or planning de- partment may ﬁnd it difﬁcult to command sim- ilar respect and attention from senior execu- tives for strategy management priorities.

The simplest solution, therefore, is to place the OSM on a par with major functions, such

harvard business review • october 2005

page 9

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
