# The Office of Strategy Management

recognize that effective strategy execution re- quires communicating corporate strategy; en- suring that enterprise-level plans are translated into the plans of the various units and depart- ments; executing strategic initiatives to deliver on the grand plan; and aligning employees’ competency development plans, and their per- sonal goals and incentives, with strategic objec- tives. What’s more, they recognize that the company’s strategy must be tested and adapted to stay abreast of the changing compe- tition. The OSM becomes the central point for coordinating all these tasks. It does not do all the work, but it facilitates the processes so that strategy execution gets accomplished in an in- tegrated fashion across the enterprise.

veys that we conducted of HR and IT managers reveal that the strategies of fully 67% of those organizations are not aligned with business unit and corporate strategies; nor do HR and IT departmental plans support corpo- rate or business-unit strategic initiatives. Bud- geting is similarly disconnected: Some 60% of organizations do not link their ﬁnancial bud- gets to strategic priorities. Incentives aren’t aligned, either: The compensation packages of 70% of middle managers and more than 90% of frontline employees have no link to the suc- cess or failure of strategy implementation. Pe- riodic management meetings, corporate com- munication, and knowledge management are similarly not focused on strategy execution.

Robert S. Kaplan is the Baker Foundation Professor at Harvard Business School in Boston. David P. Norton is the founder and president of the Balanced Scorecard Collaborative (www.bscol.com), based in Lincoln, Massachusetts.