# Original Research

Practical implications The findings of this study have practical implications for various organisations regardless of industry. From this study, findings revealed that if work–family conflict is reduced among employees, there would be a reduction in the turnover intention levels of employees. For this reason, policies should be offered that look into ways that they could buffer the effects of work-life conflict, as well as the influence that dependent children have on employees’ intentions to quit which would aid organisations in the retention of their employees.

A second implication is that turnover intentions can be alleviated by organisations when the impact of social support is taken into consideration. Findings have revealed that high levels of social support influence an employee’s decision to stay within the organisation.

Conclusion and recommendations for practice and further research The objective of this study was to test certain boundary conditions of theory that predicts certain relationships between WLBC and withdrawal cognitions. In so doing, it sought to quantify the moderating role of a host of demographic influences on the relationship between WLBC and withdrawal cognitions in the South African context. This context is taken to be particularly important in the study of employee retention, particularly given the life-changing opportunities offered by tertiary studies. Dependent children and social support were found to influence the focal relationship, in different directions. Whereas those with more dependent children might be less able to withdraw from an employment relationship, those with more social support seem to experience the opposite which has been stressed by Kahumuza and Schlechter (2008) who identify the critical role that social support plays in influencing the rate at which workers quit their organisations.

This is in support of Eisenberger, Fasolo and Davis-LaMastro (1990) who found that a situational variable such as social support could either strengthen or weaken the way conflict is perceived and can be seen in the manner in which an individual attempts to cope with conflict. However, this is in contradiction with a study conducted in a German context where employees were found to be less likely to have turnover intentions when experiencing work-to-family conflict or family-to-work conflict if they experience high levels of social support (Nohe & Sonntag 2014). The authors pose the argument that social support can intercede between the negative evaluations that may occur between the various spheres of work-life balance and turnover intentions.

Therefore, the findings reveal the importance of context in the determination of cases where social support can prevent negative assessments about in which individuals are experiencing high levels of conflict between their work and family spheres.