# Page 4 of 12

refers to instances where work–family enrichment transpires incidentally through the impact of a positive outcome. Social support, for example deriving from family and other social roles, might contribute to performance in other realms, but can also reduce the reliance of an individual on a job role that they are dissatisfied with continuing in. Hypothesis 1.d is therefore derived: the relationship between an increase in work- life balance conflict and intent to quit is increased under conditions of higher social support.

Similarly, various studies have confirmed that certain experiences in a working environment can augment family life (Pradhan 2016). Organisational factors that increase engagement may also reduce the contributions of lower work-life balance to increased withdrawal cognitions, hence Hypothesis 1.e: the relationship between an increase in work-life balance conflict and intent to quit is reduced at higher levels of engagement.

An increase in withdrawal cognitions can result from job dissatisfaction, as well as from decreased work-life balance. Job dissatisfaction might however act as a primary channel through which decreases in work-life balance contribute to withdrawal intentions. Theory offers certain plausible reasons why this might be so.

Dissatisfaction with work-life balance pressures might be amplified in a family context, if psychological strain (stress) on an individual due to increased time and work pressures (such as those associated with the demands of evening classes that compound work commitments) extends to a partner or other members of a family, as predicted by crossover theory (Pradhan 2016). It bears noting that this cohort was also exposed to the FeesMustFall protests and its aftermath, the experience of which might have been stressful for certain students at this institution (Jogee, Callaghan & Callaghan 2018). Similarly, stress might be ‘amplified’ through the same mechanism suggested by crossover theory, if an individual’s stress has an influence on other members of the family. Hypothesis 1.f is therefore offered: the relationship between increases in work-life balance conflict and intent to quit is strengthened at higher levels of stress.

Job matching theory is built around the notion that fresh information about the job match, is what results in turnover (Mincer & Jovanovic 1979). According to this perspective, before commencing a job, employees may have ‘imperfect’ information and as a result may have uncertainties regarding the value they gain as their job tenure increases. Similarly, withdrawal cognitions are a function of this match, because the in the employment relationship often occurs at the beginning rather than towards the end (Mincer & Jovanovic 1979). Therefore, the longer an individual is with an employer, the less likely it may be for an employee to quit for this reason. Key to retention is therefore the subjective job satisfaction of the employee, which may be a function of the extent to which expectations are met in the workplace context.