# HBR.ORG

- 4. This person is ready for promotion today [mea- sures potential on a yes-or-no basis]. In effect, we are asking our team leaders what they would do with each team member rather than what they think of that individual. When we aggre- gate these data points over a year, weighting each according to the duration of a given project, we produce a rich stream of information for leaders’ discussions of what they, in turn, will do—whether it’s a question of succession planning, develop- ment paths, or performance-pattern analysis. Once a quarter the organization’s leaders can use the new data to review a targeted subset of employees (those eligible for promotion, for example, or those with critical skills) and can debate what actions Deloitte might take to better develop that particular group. In this aggregation of simple but powerful data points, we see the possibility of shifting our 2-million-hour annual investment from talking about the ratings to talking about our people—from ascertaining the facts of performance to considering what we should do in response to those facts.

In addition to this consistent—and countable— data, when it comes to compensation, we want to factor in some uncountable things, such as the dif- ficulty of project assignments in a given year and contributions to the organization other than formal projects. So the data will serve as the starting point for compensation, not the ending point. The final de- termination will be reached either by a leader who knows each individual personally or by a group of leaders looking at an entire segment of our practice and at many data points in parallel.

We could call this new evaluation a rating, but it bears no resemblance, in generation or in use, to the ratings of the past. Because it allows us to quickly capture performance at a single moment in time, we call it a performance snapshot.

The Third Objective Two objectives for our new system, then, were clear: We wanted to recognize performance, and we had to be able to see it clearly. But all our research, all our conversations with leaders on the topic of perfor- mance management, and all the feedback from our people left us convinced that something was miss- ing. Is performance management at root more about “management” or about “performance”? Put differ- ently, although it may be great to be able to measure and reward the performance you have, wouldn’t it be better still to be able to improve it?