data/clean/reinventing_performance__chunk0022.md, before:

# HBR.ORG

How Deloitte Built a Radically Simple Performance Measure One of the most important tools in our redesigned performance management system is the “performance snapshot.” It lets us see performance quickly and reliably across the organization, freeing us to spend more time engaging with our people. Here’s how we created it.

1 THE CRITERIA We looked for measures that met three criteria. To neutralize the idiosyncratic rater eﬀect, we wanted raters to rate their own actions, rather than the qualities or behaviors of the ratee. To generate the necessary range, the questions had to be phrased in the extreme. And to avoid confusion, each one had to contain a single, easily understood concept. We chose one about pay, one about teamwork, one about poor performance, and one about promotion. Those categories may or may not be right for other organizations, but they work for us.

questions should collectively test an underlying theory and make it possible to ﬁnd correlations with outcomes measured in other ways, such as engagement surveys.)

4 FREQUENCY At Deloitte we live and work in a project structure, so it makes sense for us to produce a performance snapshot at the end of each project. For longer-term projects we’ve decided that quarterly is the best frequency. Our goal is to strike the right balance between tying the evaluation as tightly as possible to the experience of the performance and not overburdening our team leaders, lest survey fatigue yield poor data.

2 THE RATER We were looking for someone with vivid experience of the individual’s performance and whose subjective judgment we felt was important. We agreed that team leaders are closest to the performance of ratees and, by virtue of their roles, must exercise subjective judgment. We could have included functional managers, or even ratees’ peers, but we wanted to start with clarity and simplicity.

3 TESTING We then tested that our questions would produce useful data. Validity testing focuses on their diﬃculty (as revealed by mean responses) and the range of responses (as revealed by standard deviations). We knew that if they consistently yielded a tight cluster of “strongly agree” responses, we wouldn’t get the diﬀerentiation we were looking for. Construct validity and criterion-related validity are also important. (That is, the

5 TRANSPARENCY We’re experimenting with this now. We want our snapshots to reveal the real-time “truth” of what our team leaders think, yet our experience tells us that if they know that team members will see every data point, they may be tempted to sugarcoat the results to avoid diﬃcult conversations. We know that we’ll aggregate an individual’s snapshot scores into an annual composite. But what, exactly, should we share at year’s end? We want to err on the side of sharing more, not less—to aggregate snapshot scores not only for client work but also for internal projects, along with performance metrics such as hours and sales, in the context of a group of peers—so that we can give our people the richest possible view of where they stand. Time will tell how close to that ideal we can get.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/reinventing_performance__chunk0022.md, after:

---
source_path: reinventing_performance.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1d430f801db10be7fa01ef5c7f8aa514cdb0fd05
title: reinventing_performance
---
## THE BIG IDEA REINVENTING PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT

Our third objective therefore became to fuel per- formance. And if the performance snapshot was an organizational tool for measuring it, we needed a tool that team leaders could use to strengthen it.

Research into the practices of the best team lead- ers reveals that they conduct regular check-ins with each team member about near-term work. These brief conversations allow leaders to set expecta- tions for the upcoming week, review priorities, comment on recent work, and provide course cor- rection, coaching, or important new information. The conversations provide clarity regarding what is expected of each team member and why, what great work looks like, and how each can do his or her best work in the upcoming days—in other words, exactly the trinity of purpose, expectations, and strengths that characterizes our best teams.

Our design calls for every team leader to check in with each team member once a week. For us, these check-ins are not in addition to the work of a team leader; they are the work of a team leader. If a leader checks in less often than once a week, the team member’s priorities may become vague and aspira- tional, and the leader can’t be as helpful—and the conversation will shift from coaching for near-term work to giving feedback about past performance. In other words, the content of these conversations will be a direct outcome of their frequency: If you want people to talk about how to do their best work in the near future, they need to talk often. And so far we have found in our testing a direct and measurable correlation between the frequency of these conver- sations and the engagement of team members. Very frequent check-ins (we might say radically frequent check-ins) are a team leader’s killer app.

That said, team leaders have many demands on their time. We’ve learned that the best way to ensure frequency is to have check-ins be initiated by the team member—who more often than not is eager for the guidance and attention they provide—rather than by the team leader.

To support both people in these conversations, our system will allow individual members to un- derstand and explore their strengths using a self- assessment tool and then to present those strengths to their teammates, their team leader, and the rest of the organization. Our reasoning is twofold. First, as we’ve seen, people’s strengths generate their highest performance today and the greatest improvement in their performance tomorrow, and so deserve to be a central focus. Second, if we want to see frequent

48  Harvard Business Review April 2015
