# Research on Unionized Grievance Procedures: Management Issues and Recommendations • 403

necessary, such assessments can be used to train and re-balance supervisors’ orientation to work and employees. It further behooves senior management to periodically assess su- pervisors’ knowledge of collective bargaining agreements, given that such knowledge af- fects shop stewards in dealing with employee complaints and advising employees whether or not to file grievances.

Fifth, in order to determine how employ- ees perceive the grievance process, senior human resource and labor relations executives should periodically survey employees concern- ing their perceived fairness of grievance han- dling processes and grievance decision outcomes—perhaps as part of regular organi- zational climate surveys. It appears that the perceived fairness of grievance handling is of principal importance to employees and shapes their assessment of the overall effectiveness of grievance procedures. When a grievance

system is perceived as procedurally fair and effective, employees are likely to perceive grievance outcomes as fair even when they lose their grievance cases.

Sixth, senior human resource and labor relations executives should consider the po- tential effects of work force composition and the organization of work on grievance activ- ity. Specifically, grievance filing is most likely to occur among younger, male, more edu- cated, relatively skilled employees who are members of work groups that perform highly specialized work, experience frequent changes in work standards/methods, and in- teract frequently with other work groups. Therefore, when employees with these char- acteristics belong to dynamic work groups, senior management must be especially vigi- lant in selecting those who supervise such work groups and in monitoring and resolving workplace conflict.

RICHARD B. PETERSON is Professor of Human Resources in the School of Business Administration at the University of Washington. A specialist in international human resource management as well as industrial relations, Professor Peterson has published several books, including The Modern Grievance Procedure in the United States (with David Lewin). His articles on bargaining theory, conflict resolution, and international human resource management have appeared in a wide variety of journals in the United States and abroad. A member of the national Industrial Relations Research Association and the Academy of Management, Professor Peterson is founder of The Bargaining Group, which holds a conference every two years for researchers especially interested in negotiations and conflict resolution.

DAVID LEWIN is the Neil Jacoby Professor of Management, Human Resources, and Organizational Behavior in the Anderson Graduate School of Management at UCLA. Prior to joining UCLA in 1990, he was Professor, Director of the Ph.D. Program, Di- rector of the Human Resources Research Center, and Director of the Senior Executive Program at the Columbia University Graduate School of Business. A specialist in hu- man resource management and industrial relations, Professor Lewin has published 16 books and more than 150 articles in academic and business journals. A founder and Fellow of the National Academy of Human Resources, Professor Lewin is presently writing two books: one on human resource practices and business performance, the other on conflict management and resolution in the modern business enterprise.