## 402 • HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT, Winter 2000

Employees who file grievances, however, appear to fare poorly after grievance settlement compared to employees who do not file grievances in terms of subsequent job performance, promotion, work attendance and turnover/ retention.

for example, by return on assets, return on capital employed, and revenue per employee. Although the samples used in these studies include both unionized and non-union firms (or business units), the presence of a formal grievance procedure has typically been in- cluded in indexes or bundles of high perfor- mance work practices. This was the approach taken by Mitchell, Lewin, & Lawler (1990), who included the presence of a formal griev- ance procedure in their index of the formality of human resource practices (FHR), and by Huselid (1995), who included the percentage of employees covered by a formal grievance procedure in one of his two main indexes of high performance work practices (HPWP). In both studies, these indexes were found to be significantly positively related to measures of firms’ economic performance. More broadly, this type of research indicates that grievance procedures can be studied at the organiza- tional level of analysis, not just at the indi- vidual level that has been especially popular in grievance procedure research.

For senior human resource and labor rela- tions executives, the key findings from indus- trial relations research on grievance procedures pertain to grievance procedure ef- fectiveness, post-grievance settlement out- comes, and organizational outcomes. A grievance system that is perceived by employ- ees to be procedurally just or fair is likely to be used and to be regarded as effective. Em- ployees who file grievances, however, appear to fare poorly after grievance settlement com- pared to employees who do not file grievances in terms of subsequent job performance, pro- motion, work attendance and turnover/reten- tion. Alternatively, a grievance procedure appears to be one among a bundle of high in- volvement human resource practices that are positively associated with overall organiza- tional performance.