---
source_path: research_on_unionized_grievance_procedures_management_issues_and_recommendations.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7eae4f69047ee53dabcf1bbd6e8edd634b18a1df
title: research_on_unionized_grievance_procedures_management_issues_and_recommendations
---
# Research on Unionized Grievance Procedures: Management Issues and Recommendations • 399

(1991) by Bemmels, Sheref, & Stratton-Devine concluded otherwise. Using survey data on 231 work groups obtained from numerous locals of one Canadian union, these researchers found little empirical support for the hypothesis that differences in technology explain variation in grievance filing rates. Only one measure of tech- nology (“requires following strict rules and pro- cedures”) was significantly related to grievance filing rates in this study, and the negative sign on this variable contradicted the results of ear- lier studies.

For senior human resource and labor rela- tions executives, the key findings that derive from sociological research on grievance pro- cedures concern the characteristics of orga- nizations, work groups and technology. In particular, work groups composed of semi- skilled employees who perform specialized work, experience frequent change in work methods/standards, and interact frequently with other work groups are more likely to gen- erate high grievance filing rates than other work groups. These “grievance active” work groups use the grievance process to negotiate certain benefits for themselves. By contrast, neither technology nor centralized (or decen- tralized) organizational decision-making ap- pears to be significantly related to formal grievance filing.4

Labor economists have applied Hirschman’s framework to the employment relationship, specifically to unionized employ- ment relationships; the best-known work is that of Freeman & Medoff (1984). These research- ers modeled unionism as the voice mechanism in the employment relationship and hypoth- esized that union exercise of voice on behalf of employees reduces their exit or quit rates com- pared to those of non-union employees. Using secondary data from a wide range of manufac- turing industries and workers, Freeman & Medoff (1984) consistently found significantly lower quit rates among unionized than non- union workers even after controlling for differ- ences in wages and other factors. Such lower quit rates translate into longer average job ten- ure for unionized than for non-union workers, which provides an incentive for unionized firms to make greater investments in employee train- ing than non-union firms. Such training, in turn, increases the quality of unionized firms’ human capital and hence employee productiv- ity relative to non-union firms. This productiv- ity gain is offset by the increased labor costs to unionized firms resulting from negotiated pay increases, but since unit labor costs are un- changed the unionized firm can co-exist and compete with the non-union firm—or so say Freeman & Medoff (1984).

… work groups composed of semi-skilled employees who perform specialized work, experience frequent change in work methods/ standards, and interact frequently with other work groups are more likely to generate high grievance filing rates than other work groups.
