data/clean/research_on_unionized_grievance_procedures_management_issues_and_recommendations__chunk0023.md, before:

# Research on Unionized Grievance Procedures: Management Issues and Recommendations • 401

grievance procedure effectiveness and then tested the model using data from steel manu- facturing firms, retail department stores, non- profit hospitals, and local public schools. Among other things, they found that employee perceptions of grievance procedure effective- ness were significantly positively related to em- ployee use of the grievance process. Fryxell & Gordon (1989) tested relationships between beliefs in procedural justice, distributive jus- tice, moral order, and unionists’ overall evalu- ation of the grievance system as well as union members’ satisfaction with their unions and employers. They found that procedural due process was positively associated with union members’ assessment of the grievance system as a whole, while both procedural and distribu- tive justice were positively related to members’ satisfaction with their union. Satisfaction with management, by contrast, was positively re- lated to union members’ belief in a moral or- der. In a study of the mail carriers’ union, Clark & Gallagher (1988) found that union mem- bers who filed grievances had more favorable attitudes toward and assessments of the griev- ance procedure than union members who didn’t file grievances. In a Canadian study, Knight (1986) found that union and manage- ment learning from prior grievance cases had a positive effect on the resolution of subse- quent grievance cases.

Lewin & Peterson (1999, 1988) and Lewin (1997) also studied post-grievance settlement personnel outcomes for grievants compared to non-grievants, using data from four organi- zations over multi-year periods. They found that grievants had lower job performance rat- ings, promotion rates, and work attendance rates and higher voluntary and involuntary turnover rates than did non-grievants in the periods following grievance filing and settle- ment, whereas no significant differences along these personnel dimensions existed between these two employee groups prior to or during the grievance filing period. Of particular im- portance, similar findings emerged with re- spect to supervisors of grievants compared to supervisors of non-grievants.5 Klaas & Denisi (1989) also found that grievance activity was negatively associated with grievants’ job per- formance following grievance settlement. In a related study, Klaas, Heneman, & Olson

(1991) analyzed relationships between griev- ance activity and employee absenteeism over an eight-year period among 450 employees of a unionized public sector organization. They found a significant positive relationship be- tween the filing of grievances over manage- ment policies and subsequent employee absenteeism from their work units, but a sig- nificant negative relationship between the fil- ing of grievances over disciplinary matters and subsequent employee absenteeism from their work units.

Recent studies by Lewin & Boroff (1996) and Boroff & Lewin (1997) of grievance pro- cedure dynamics in a large unionized telecom- munications firm appear to be the first to have focused exclusively on employees who believed that they have been unfairly treated at work, as distinct from all employees of a bargaining unit or all employees who are otherwise eli- gible to file grievances. Among the sample of employees who said that they had been un- fairly treated at work, the authors found that employee loyalty was significantly negatively related to both grievance filing (i.e., the use of voice) and intent to leave (i.e., exit) the firm. They also found that employee fear of reprisal for filing grievances was significantly nega- tively associated with actual grievance filing in this large firm despite the protections os- tensibly afforded these employees by their union, the collective bargaining agreement, and provisions of the National Labor Relations Act. Lewin & Boroff (1996) and Boroff & Lewin (1997) therefore conclude that their evidence provides strong support for the proposition that loyal employees largely “suf- fer in silence” in response to unfair work place treatment. This conclusion, in turn, provides some support for an organizational punish- ment/industrial discipline theory of the griev- ance process (Lewin & Peterson, 1999; Lewin, 1997; Peterson, 1992).

Grievance procedures are also being con- sidered by industrial relations researchers who study “high performance” work places and practices (Levine, 1995; Pil & MacDuffie, 1996; Delaney, Lewin, & Ichniowski, 1989). This research is primarily oriented toward modeling and assessing the effects of high in- volvement or high participation work practices on firms’ economic performance as measured,

… their evidence provides strong support for the proposition that loyal employees largely “suffer in silence” in response to unfair work place treatment.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/research_on_unionized_grievance_procedures_management_issues_and_recommendations__chunk0023.md, after:

---
source_path: research_on_unionized_grievance_procedures_management_issues_and_recommendations.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 12c2a25f5901b673f29ea5c378ce58f2bb1fedaf
title: research_on_unionized_grievance_procedures_management_issues_and_recommendations
---
# Industrial Relations Research

Industrial relations scholars have been interested in the union grievance procedure for decades. For example, Slichter, Healy, & Livernash (1960) provided important insights into the function- ing of the union grievance procedure in the 1950s. These and other early researchers, how- ever, made little or no attempt to collect griev- ance data for the purpose of testing explicit hypotheses about grievance procedure dynam- ics. More rigorous industrial relations research on the grievance process began to emerge in the 1980s, and some leading examples of this re- search are briefly reviewed here.

Lewin (1984), Peterson (1988), and Lewin & Peterson (1988) used systems theory to develop a six-dimension model of
