---
source_path: revisiting_equity_theory_in_the_global_virtual_teams.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: bf2aeff4049358390d668f2ff8005544c7ce8a2f
title: revisiting_equity_theory_in_the_global_virtual_teams
---
# tore balance. However, an Entitled (taker) may be fully content with disproportionately high rewards and can even adjust their evaluation scale and values to justify the disbalance. Looking at the possible types of output –input ratios, there are, in essence, four possible combinations of how one’s output could compare to one’s input. They are: L/H, H/H, L/L and H/L, where H indicates High and L indicates Low. For instance, L/H indicat es a scenario where one’s perceived outputs are lower (L) relative to one’s inputs (H). Combining these output/i nput ratio types with the typology of organizational employees mentioned earlier, we can gener alize that a Benevolent would favor the first alternative (L/H), Entitleds would strive to attain the last option (H/L) and Equity Sensitives would seek either H/H or L/L. Huseman et al. (1987) assume different rewarded to relationships between the independent variable of perception of equity (from under overrewarded perception) and the dependent variable of job satisfaction for ea ch of the three defined groups: the more the perception of overreward, the less the satisfaction for Benevolents’ (givers); an inverted U-shaped relationship between Equity Sensitives’ perceptions of equity and job satisfaction; the more the perception of over reward the more the satisfac tion for Entitleds’ (takers). 2.2 Research that supports and further develops Adams’ equity theory ET has received support from experiments conducted in the 1960s by Adams and his associates – importantly, with specific reference to the most controvers ial aspect of the theory, namely, the predicted effects of overrewarded inequity. Using a sample of students temporari ly employed by the university placement office for marketing research, Adams and Rosenbaum (1962) showed that an experimentally induced sense of guilt (i.e. stating they were not entirely qualified f or the job), as compared to a control group, led to an increase in the individual productivity to restore e quity. Adams also compared piece -rate payments in terms of the quantity of output, fixed hourly compensation rates and output quality, which corroborates ET (Adams and Rosenbaum, 1962) Furthermore, Adams and Jacobsen (1964) conducted an experiment using a sample of students employed for proofreading, which used quality and quantity of output to characterize conditions of equity/inequity and employment security. Interestingly, and perhaps unex pectedly, ET predictions held true even under the conditions of job insecurity. Also, Adams (1968) studied economically deprived workers and found that they can systematically produce large quantities of relatively lower-quality work with the only objective of maximizing outcomes. Therefore, the aim of ET is not to deny that maximizing outcomes i s a powerful determinant of behavior but rather that there is ample experimental evidence showi ng that the desire to achieve justice has a considerable effect on behavior. O’Reilly and Puffer (1989) found that employees’ motivation increases when coworkers receive appropriate sanctions for their undesired behavior. That is, the satisfaction and motivation of a group increase when a high - performing group member is penalized. - performing group member gets rewarded or when a poor More recently, the theoretical foundations of ET were discussed by Cheng et al. (2020), who examined cyberloafing in the workplace from the perspective of perceived overqualification among civil servants, drawing on ET. These authors properly acknowledged the existing research to combine both the perspectives of ET and cyberloafing (we adopt a similar vie w but combine ise construct ET and GVTs). Further developments in ET have evidenced the difficulty of prec measurement and the importance of defining what constitutes an input and an outcome because standards, perceptions and referents people use for comparison change over time a nd contexts . (Kulik and Ambrose, 1992). The equity -sensitive concept proved to be valid in other studies (Kickul and Lester, 2001; Wheeler, 2002; Yamaguchi, 2003) and has already been applied to teachers’ (Prieto et al., 2023) and students’ samples, such as business students in the USA and the Czech Republic, showing a consistently higher level of Entitleds among European student s (Mueller and Clarke, 1998). ET has had important applications in management studies: to explain organizational behavior in specific national contexts (Buzea, 2014); for cross-cultural comparisons (Yoon and Almond, 2022); to understand job satisfaction for age-diverse workforces (Kollmann et al., 2020); to investigate customer attitudes toward insurance frauds (Tseng and Kuo, 2014); to study cognitive processes and casual schemes to justify exchange outcomes (Arvanitis and Hantzi, 2016); to understand the challenges of workforce localization of health -care professionals in an international context (Ryan, 2023); to examine the association between (in)congruence in employee and peer overqualification and perceived insider status (Li et al., 2023); t o explore the congruence effect of perceived self -overqualification and perceived coworker -overqualification (Chu, 2021). 2.3 Criticism of Adam’s equity theory ET received considerable criticism for both its assumpti ons and practical applications. One main issue revolves around the model’s simplicity and is linked to the number of demographic and psychological variables affecting the individuals’ perceptions of fairness, which may change how people interact with others. If the subjective perceptions of output/input ratio c an so easily be affected by demographics or personality, how useful is the theory? Similarly, Huseman et al. (1987) question the ET’s external validity. As ET is grounded on propositions generated by experiments in a controlled environment, some questions exist regarding its applicability to real individuals might perceive equity not only in terms of the specific outcomes and inputs but also in terms of the overall system that regulates and operationalizes such outputs and inputs. In that sense, a person might feel that compensation is equitable to a “comparison other”, but might consider the global compensation system unfair. - world situations. Likewise, Carrell and Dittrich (1978) posit that In that manner, Huseman et al. (1987) also posit that national differences, demographic variables (e.g. gender) and personality traits are important variables that ena ble us to understand the distinct manners by which individuals assess outcomes to themselves or others. For i nstance, national differences in assessment preferences are well documented in Chines e and US business organizations (Chen, 1995). In addition, employees can adjust for purchasing power and local market conditions. For illustration, an employee from a developing country might accept a lower salary than his colleague in America if the cost of liv ing is lower, whereas an employee in Africa might accept a completely different compensation package. - oriented or personal development-oriented) determines the distribution principle (equity, equality or need) the group members use to allocate resources (Mannix et al., 1995). Bakhshi et al. (2009) concur by stating that perceived organizational justice is an important antecedent of individual behavior and Vecchio (1981) shows that the individual’s moral maturity moderates the ET performance. hypotheses will be laid out to define the possible effects of ET in GVTs. Moreover, organizational culture (be it economically oriented, relationship 2.4 Hypotheses development for equity theory in global virtual teams context Given the importance of ET and that several researchers proposed advances in our knowledge on the theme, there is ample justification regarding our interest in probing the research further in that innovative work setting of online, international teamwork t workplace in International Business (Tavoletti and Taras, 2022) and where ET h as never been tested. In fact, no other published research applied ET to the virtual environment except for Cheng ification and et al. (2020), who investigated a positive relationship between perceived overqual cyberloafing, and Lim’s (2020) work on online buying. The present study seeks to fill this gap. hat has become the new normal - person context: no need to commute, the possibility to hire talent regardless of geographic lo cation (particularly suitable for short -term projects) and a 24 -h working day, thanks to time zones. However, GVTs also pose some research challenges: fewer interpersonal interactions since virtual tools are “lean” media; much of the information transmitted is nonverbal; communication via e - mail or online means that gestures, mimics and context may be lost; less cohesion and trust among team members; and difficulty observing and evaluating the quantity and quality of individual contributions. The advantages and disadvantages of GVT collaboration have been debat ed and systematized (Bergiel et al., 2008), and the literature on GVTs is already vast (Tavoletti and Taras, 2022), but the relevance of ET in GVTs has never been tested. Specifically, we tested the validity of the ET theory in GVTs, by following Huseman et al. (1987) and replicating the original study (carried out in a traditional work environment) to the GVT context. Therefore, the research question we are trying to address is whether and t o what extent ET still provides a sound theoretical foundation for explaining employees’ satisfaction, motivation and organizational commitment, or – conversely – if emerging behaviors, traits and other work - related attitudes deteriorate the requirements for an eff ective and objective assessment of input - reward ratios. Virtual environments provide several benefits compared to the traditional in Importantly, as GVTs’ frame of reference is generally limited to subjective peer and SE (Tavoletti et al., 2023),
