# Decision, Vol. 61 No. 1, pp. 1-7.

Sauley, K.S. and Bedeian, A.G. (2000), “Equity sensitivity: construction of a measure and

examination of its psychometric properties”, Journal of Management, Vol. 26 No. 5, pp. 885- 910.

Scholl, R.W., Cooper, E.A. and McKenna, J.F. (1987), “Referent selection in determining equity

perceptions: differential effects on behavioral and attitudinal outcomes”, Personnel Psychology, Vol. 40 No. 1, pp. 113-124.

Stahl, G.K. and Maznevski, M.L. (2021), “Unraveling the effects of cultural diversity in teams: a retrospective of research on multicultural work groups and an agenda for future research”, Journal of International Business Studies, Vol. 52 No. 1, pp. 4-22.

Taras, V., Gunkel, M., Assouad, A., Tavoletti, E., Kraemer, J., Jiménez, A., Svirina, A., Lei, W.S.

and Shah, G. (2021), “The predictive power of university pedigree on the graduate's performance in global virtual teams”, European J. of International Management, Vol. 16 No. 4, pp. 555-584.

Taras, V., Caprar, D.V., Rottig, D., Sarala, R.M., Zakaria, N., Zhao, F., Jiménez, A., Wankel, C., Lei, W.S., Minor, M.S., Bryła, P., Ordeñana, X., Bode, A., Schuster, A., Vaiginiene, E., Froese, F.J., Bathula, H., Yajnik, N., Baldegger, R. and Huang, V.Z. (2013), “A global classroom? Evaluating the effectiveness of global virtual collaboration as a teaching tool in management education”, Academy of Management Learning and Education, Vol. 12 No. 3, pp. 414-435.

Tavoletti, E. (2020), “We are different: cross-national similarities in the non-response to COVID- 19 pandemic and the need for global cooperation”, In COVID-19 and International Business, Routledge, pp. 56-65.

Tavoletti, E. and Taras, V. (2022), “From the periphery to the centre: a bibliometric review of

global virtual teams as a new ordinary workplace”, Management Research Review, Vol. 46 No. 8, pp. 1061-1090.

Tavoletti, E., Stephens, R. and Dong, L. (2019), “The impact of peer evaluation on team effort, productivity, motivation and performance in global virtual teams”, Team Performance Management: An International Journal, Vol. 25 Nos 5/6, pp. 334-347.

Tavoletti, E., Bernhard, T., Dong, L. and Taras, V. (2023), “Peer performance evaluations in

global virtual teams: a longitudinal analysis of surface-and deep-level attributes”, Journal of International Management, Vol. 29 No. 3, p. 101029.

Tavoletti, E., Stephens, R.D., Taras, V. and Dong, L. (2022b), “Nationality biases in peer

evaluations: the country-of-origin effect in global virtual teams”, International Business Review, Vol. 31 No. 2, p. 101969.

Tavoletti, E., Florea, L., Taras, V., Sahin, F., Çetin, F. and Askun, D. (2022a), “Cohesion and performance in global virtual teams: the moderating role of technical skills”, European Journal of International Management, Vol. ahead-of-print, doi: 10.1504/EJIM.2022.10048936.

Taylor, S.G., Kluemper, D.H. and Sauley, K.S. (2009), “Equity sensitivity revisited: contrasting

unidimensional and multidimensional approaches”, Journal of Business and Psychology, Vol. 24 No. 3, pp. 299-314.

Tseng, L.-M. and Kuo, C.-L. (2014), “Customers’ attitudes toward insurance frauds: an

application of Adams’ equity theory”, International Journal of Social Economics, Vol. 41 No. 11, pp. 1038-1054.

Vecchio, R.P. (1981), “An individual-differences interpretation of the conflicting predictions

generated by equity and expectancy theory”, Journal of Applied Psychology, Vol. 66 No. 4, pp. 470-481.

Walton, R.E. (1985), “From control to commitment in the workplace”, Harvard Business

Review, Vol. 85, pp. 77-84.

Wheeler, K.G. (2002), “Cultural values in relation to equity sensitivity within and across