---
source_path: revisiting_equity_theory_in_the_global_virtual_teams.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: fb0340c625a1913f6645014f223fa4aaeab8309c
title: revisiting_equity_theory_in_the_global_virtual_teams
---
information transmitted is nonverbal; communication via e - mail or online means that gestures, mimics and context may be lost; less cohesion and trust among team members; and difficulty observing and evaluating the quantity and quality of individual contributions. The advantages and disadvantages of GVT collaboration have been debat ed and systematized (Bergiel et al., 2008), and the literature on GVTs is already vast (Tavoletti and Taras, 2022), but the relevance of ET in GVTs has never been tested. Specifically, we tested the validity of the ET theory in GVTs, by following Huseman et al. (1987) and replicating the original study (carried out in a traditional work environment) to the GVT context. Therefore, the research question we are trying to address is whether and t o what extent ET still provides a sound theoretical foundation for explaining employees’ satisfaction, motivation and organizational commitment, or – conversely – if emerging behaviors, traits and other work - related attitudes deteriorate the requirements for an eff ective and objective assessment of input - reward ratios. Virtual environments provide several benefits compared to the traditional in Importantly, as GVTs’ frame of reference is generally limited to subjective peer and SE (Tavoletti et al., 2023), the importance of this research becomes evident from the per spective of ion of how the special nature of the GVT processes. Hence, one main contribution is the discuss the findings from our study help develop ET theory further. To that end, we use a large sample of GVTs to test ET’s predictions and to verify whether it still applies to peer and S E evaluations of performance. Authors like Davlembayeva and Alamanos (2022) and Miles et al. (1994) have confirmed the inverted U -shaped relationship between Equity Sensitives’ perception of equity and job satisfaction in GVTs, the direct relationship for Entitled Benevolents.
