# Article:

- 1. Introduction

Equity theory (ET) has gained considerable popularity in the literature after being i ntroduced in the seminal work by Adams (1963). He purported to incorporate into the antecedents of employee rlier motivation the (as yet) unaddressed feeling of unfairness, which Herzberg et al. (1957) ea dams (1965) also identified as “the most frequently reported source of job dissatisfaction”. A sought to investigate effective solutions to counteract the effects of the feeling of unf airness. Adams’s work was followed by authors such as Deutsch (1975), Leventhal (1976) and, more recently, Bakhshi et al. (2009), Burrus and Mattern (2010), until Cheng et al. (2020), Yoon and Almond (2022), Prieto et al. (2023). According to the extant theory, equity is defined as the perception of assessing the consistency between outcomes and the norm for allocating rewards. ation and commitment to the

ET’s main postulate is that employee satisfaction, motiv

organization are not merely driven by nominal amounts of compensation but, rather, that satisfaction derives from a perception of one’s input -reward ratio relative to the r atio of other employees. When the ratios are comparable, employees will be content and motivated; when they are not, i.e. if one’s perception is that other people receive more relative t o their input, one’s satisfaction and motivation drop, undermining the workgroup’s morale and triggering numerous adverse behavioral consequences. Top performers are satisfied if their rewards are commensurate with their inputs. Likewise, those getting the least could still be content if they realize their lower output resu lts from their lesser efforts (i.e. lower input); thus, the input -reward ratios are qualitatively balanced across the spectra of performances and rewards. By w ay of illustration, a working parent would accept lower compensation in return for flexible working hours to care for the family (Adams, 1963).

In his body of scholarly work, Adams considered as independent organizational variables (henceforth, inputs) education, intelligence, experience, training, skills, seniority, age, sex, ethnic background, social status, job effort, personal appearance, health, possession of tools and spouse’s characteristics. On the other hand, as dependent variables (or outputs), he considered pay, intrinsic rewards, satisfying supervision, seniority benefits, perks, fringe benefits symbols, job perquisites, the quality of working conditions, monotony and uncertainty over one’s fate. It is thus the ratio of these inputs -outputs that, according to ET, determines organizational workers’ satisfaction and motivation (Miner, 2005).