data/clean/S24051-PDF-ENG__chunk0039.md, before:

# HBR / Spotlight / New Rules for Teamwork

problem-solving sessions in person, compared with 59% of those who

ran them remotely.

The data also shows that these beneﬁts aren’t linear. Teams that colocate more than 50% of the time increasingly have to make diﬃcult

trade-oﬀs when it comes to work-life balance and the ability to conduct

focused work. At McKinsey and at other organizations, we’ve found that

teams working remotely about 50% of the time are twice as likely to have suﬃcient recovery from work and are signiﬁcantly more likely to

ﬁnd their jobs sustainable.

Knowing what to measure is critical. For example, trauma centers

determine team eﬀectiveness by measuring how long it takes to

stabilize a patient—a major factor in survival. When experimenting

with methods to reduce stabilization time, some centers tried placing

timers in each trauma bay. Research showed that this simple action

signiﬁcantly reduced stabilization time. The point is that when the right

metrics are identiﬁed and collected, it becomes clear what practices to

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/S24051-PDF-ENG__chunk0039.md, after:

---
source_path: S24051-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: cb8fc47ec21cff2dd13f35e33d115f970ceb9175
title: S24051-PDF-ENG
---
## productivity, client impact, apprenticeship, and personal experience.

The results were unequivocal: The sweet spot for in-person time is

about 50%. When teams colocate half the time over the course of a

project, they’re 10 times as likely to believe they collaborated eﬀectively

compared with those above or below that level. Team members are

25% more likely to be satisﬁed with the quality of their support, and

team leaders are signiﬁcantly more likely to say that they built solid

client relationships. For example, 77% of our team leaders said that they

had built meaningful connections with their clients when they held

Copyright © 2024 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

8

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
