data/clean/S24011-PDF-ENG__chunk0043.md, before:

## HBR / Spotlight Article / Leading in the Flow of Work

them” attitude to jointly looking for the best path forward, and he fused

opposing points of view by getting the two sides to see the value of

not just doing their work well but also coming together to share, learn,

and connect. It worked. “I received several text messages and emails,”

he recounts, “acknowledging how I had been able to turn around the

situation and bridge the divide.”

Once executives have chosen the actions they’ll undertake, they should

spend ﬁve to 10 minutes before the event reviewing them and the

intention they have set and taking time to center themselves. (There

are any number of practices people can use to do this, such as deep

breathing or a brief meditation.) As part of this they should spend two

minutes visualizing how they’ll perform each chosen action. Our data

shows that people who engage in such visualizations are 70% more

likely to succeed at their goals. “It’s like the warm-up that athletes

do before a game to perform better and avoid injury,” a key account

director at IBM told us. “We executives too need to warm up our minds

prior to events to think better and to prevent meetings from going in the

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/S24011-PDF-ENG__chunk0043.md, after:

---
source_path: S24011-PDF-ENG.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a505e3225b5921461131d799b6b39e14642d04c4
title: S24011-PDF-ENG
---
## with administrators about their motivations and with clinicians and

staﬀ about the complications they were experiencing, he discovered

that top hospital systems had implemented similar huddles and found

they greatly improved communication and workﬂow and created a

sense of community. He then convened a meeting of the clinicians

and staﬀ. He set the tone by expressing appreciation (thereby creating

love energy) for the tremendous sacriﬁces people were making. He then

drew on purpose by appealing to the values and purpose of those present

by reminding them of their collective commitment to providing the best

patient care. Next he took two more actions that lead to wisdom: He

created the right frame by helping people switch from an “us versus

Copyright © 2024 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved.

9

This document is authorized for use only by Matt O'Donnell (matthew.od11@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.
