---
source_path: s41586-023-06735-9.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 68eca0ee0f418bf3351afb60879db315df8ca1bc
title: s41586-023-06735-9
---
# Methods

Datasets and candidate generation Snapshots of available datasets. GNoME discoveries aim to extend the catalogues of known stable crystals. In particular, we build off previous work by the Materials Project16, the OQMD17, Wang, Botti and Marques (WBM)27 and the ICSD15. For reproducibility, GNoME-based discoveries use snapshots of the two datasets saved at a fixed point in time. We use the data from the Materials Project as of March 2021 and the OQMD as of June 2021. These structures are used as the basis for all discovery including via SAPS, yielding the catalogue of stable crystals as a result of GNoME. Further updates and incorporation of discoveries by these two groups could yield an even greater number of crystal discoveries. For a revised comparison, another snapshot of the Materials Project, the OQMD and WBM was taken in July 2023. Approximately 216,000 DFT calculations were performed at consistent settings and used to compare the rate of GNoME discoveries versus the rate of discoveries by concurrent research efforts. From 2021 to 2023, the number of stable crystals external to GNoME expanded from 35,000 to 48,000, relatively small in comparison with the 381,000 new stable crystal structures available on the convex hull presented in this paper.

substitutions (SAPS), which generalizes common substitution frame- works. For a motivating example, consider the cases of (double) per- ovskites. Ionic substitutions on crystals of composition A2B2X6 does not lead to discovering double perovskites A2BB′O6, although the two only differ by a partial replacement on the B site.

SAPS enable efficient discovery of such structures. Starting with an original composition, we obtain candidate ion replacements using the probabilities as defined in the ‘Substitution patterns’ section. We then obtain Wyckoff positions of the input structures by means of symmetry analysers available through pymatgen. We enable partial replacements from 1 to all atoms of the candidate ion, for which at each level we only consider unique symmetry groupings to control the com- binatorial growth. Early experiments limited the partial substitutions to materials that would charge-balance after partial substitutions when considering common oxidation states; however, greater expansion of candidates was achieved by removing such charge-balancing from the later experiments. This partial-substitution framework enables greater use of common crystal structures while allowing for the discovery of new prototypical structures, as discussed in the main part of this paper. Candidates from SAPS are from a different distribution to the candidates from full substitutions, which increases the diversity of our discoveries and our dataset.

Substitution patterns. Structural substitution patterns are based on data-mined probabilities from ref. 22. That work introduced a proba- bilistic model for assessing the likelihood for ionic species substitution within a single crystal structure. In particular, the probability of sub- stitution is calculated as a binary feature model such that ′) , in which X and X′ are n-component vectors of p X X( , n different ions. The model is simplified so that fi is 0 or 1 if a specific substitution pair occurs and λi provides a weighting for the likelihood of a given substitution. The resulting probabilities have been helpful, for example, in discovering new quaternary ionic compounds with limited computation budgets.
