---
source_path: s41586-023-06735-9.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c9b9a2049366b9c13dcd24558167407127ab650e
title: s41586-023-06735-9
---
# https://www.tensorflow.org/ (2015).

- 65. Momma, K. & Izumi, F. VESTA 3 for three-dimensional visualization of crystal, volumetric

and morphology data. J. Applied Crystallogr. 44, 1272–1276 (2011).

- 66. Geiger, M. & Smidt, T. e3nn: Euclidean neural networks. Preprint at https://arxiv.org/abs/

2207.09453 (2022).

- 67. Anderson, J. A., Glaser, J. & Glotzer, S. C. HOOMD-blue: a Python package for high-

performance molecular dynamics and hard particle Monte Carlo simulations. Comput. Mater. Sci. 173, 109363 (2020).

- 68. Hendrycks, D. & Gimpel, K. Gaussian Error Linear Units (GELUs). Preprint at https://arxiv.

org/abs/1606.08415 (2016).

- 69. Jun, K. et al. Lithium superionic conductors with corner-sharing frameworks. Nat. Mater.

21, 924–931 (2022).

- 70. Ong, S. P. et al. Phase stability, electrochemical stability and ionic conductivity of the Li10±1MP2X12 (M = Ge, Si, Sn, Al or P, and X = O, S or Se) family of superionic conductors. Energy Environ. Sci. 6, 148–156 (2013).

Machine-learning-driven molecular dynamics simulations using JAX MD63 are run on a subset of materials for which AIMD data were available and for which the composition was in the test set of the pretraining data (that is, previously unseen compositions), containing Li, Na, K, Mg and Ca as potentially conducting species. This results in 623 materials for which GNoME-driven molecular dynamics simulations are run. Simula- tions are performed at T =1,000 K using a Nosé–-Hoover thermostat, a temperature equilibration constant of 40 time steps, a 2-fs time step and a total simulation length of 50 ps. Molecular dynamics simulations are performed on a single P100 GPU.

For analysis of both the AIMD and the machine learning molecular dynamics simulation, the first 10 ps of the simulation are discarded for equilibration. From the final 40 ps, we compute the diffusivity using the DiffusionAnalyzer class of pymatgen with the default smoothed=max setting23,70,71.

- 71. Mo, Y., Ong, S. P. & Ceder, G. First principles study of the Li10GeP2S12 lithium super ionic conductor material. Chem. Mater. 24, 15–17 (2012).

Acknowledgements We would like to acknowledge D. Eck, J. Sohl-Dickstein, J. Dean, J. Barral, J. Shlens, P. Kohli and Z. Ghahramani for sponsoring the project; L. Dorfman for product management support; A. Pierson for programme management support; O. Loum for help with computing resources; L. Metz for help with infrastructure; E. Ocampo for help with early work on the AIRSS pipeline; A. Sendek, B. Yildiz, C. Chen, C. Bartel, G. Ceder, J. Sun, J. P. Holt, K. Persson, L. Yang, M. Horton and M. Brenner for insightful discussions; and the Google DeepMind team for continuing support.

Author contributions A.M. led the code development, experiments and analysis in most parts of the project, including the proposal of the data flywheel through active learning, candidate generation (for example, invention of SAPS), large-scale training and evaluation workflows, DFT calculations, convex-hull analysis and materials screening. S.B. led the code development, training and experiments of the force fields and the zero-shot evaluations, fine-tuning, robustness and the GNN molecular dynamics experiments, and contributed to overall code development, as well as training infrastructure. S.S.S. led the scaling of GNN training and JAX MD infrastructure and contributed to force-field experiments. M.A. contributed to data analyses, validation and benchmarking efforts, ran experiments and provided guidance. G.C. contributed to analysis, zero-shot evaluations and provided guidance. E.D.C. conceived and led the direction of the project, wrote software for data generation, model implementations and training, and led the scaling experiments. All authors contributed to discussion and writing.

Data availability Crystal structures corresponding to stable discoveries discussed throughout the paper will be made available at https://github.com/ google-deepmind/materials_discovery. In particular, we provide results for all stable structures, as well as any material that has been recomputed from previous datasets to ensure consistent settings. Associated data from the r2SCAN functional will be provided, expect- antly serving as a foundation for analysing discrepancies between functional choices. Data will also be available via the Materials Project

Competing interests Google LLC owns intellectual property rights related to this work, including, potentially, patent rights.

Additional information Supplementary information The online version contains supplementary material available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-023-06735-9. Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to Amil Merchant or Ekin Dogus Cubuk. Peer review information Nature thanks the anonymous reviewers for their contribution to the peer review of this work. Reprints and permissions information is available at http://www.nature.com/reprints.
