# Si

Training set size

Fig. 3 | Scaling learned interatomic potentials. a, Classification of whether a material is a superionic conductor as predicted by GNoME-driven simulations in comparison with AIMD, tested on 623 unseen compositions. The classification error improves as a power law with training set size. b, Zero-shot force error as a function of training set size for the unseen material K24Li16P24Sn8. c, Robustness under distribution shift, showing the MAE in forces on the example material Ba8Li16Se32Si8. A GNoME-pretrained and a randomly initialized potential are

trained on data of various sizes sampled at T = 400 K and evaluated on data sampled at T = 1,000 K. The zero-shot GNoME potential outperforms state-of- the-art models trained from scratch on hundreds of structures. d, Comparison of zero-shot force errors of three different pretrained, general-purpose potentials for bulk systems on the test set of ref. 56. Note that the composition Ni is not present in the GNoME pretraining data. RMSE, root-mean-square error.

inorganic bulk crystals and allows for high-accuracy, zero-shot predic- tion of materials properties at scale.

Conclusion We show that GNNs trained on a large and diverse set of first-principles calculations can enable the efficient discovery of inorganic materials, increasing the number of stable crystals by more than an order of mag- nitude. Associated datasets empower machine-learned interatomic potentials, giving accurate and robust molecular-dynamics simulations out of the box on unseen bulk materials. Our findings raise interesting questions about the capabilities of deep-learning systems in the natural sciences: the application of machine-learning methods for scientific discovery has traditionally suffered from the fundamental challenge that learning algorithms work under the assumption of identically distributed data at train and test times, but discovery is inherently an out-of-distribution effort. Our results on large-scale learning provide a potential step to move past this dilemma, by demonstrating that GNoME models exhibit emergent out-of-distribution capabilities at scale. This includes discovery in unseen chemical spaces (for example, with more than four different elements), as well as on new downstream tasks (for example, predicting kinetic properties).

Online content Any methods, additional references, Nature Portfolio reporting summa- ries, source data, extended data, supplementary information, acknowl- edgements, peer review information; details of author contributions and competing interests; and statements of data and code availability are available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-023-06735-9.

- 1. Green, M. A., Ho-Baillie, A. & Snaith, H. J. The emergence of perovskite solar cells.

Nat. Photon. 8, 506–514 (2014).

- 2. Mizushima, K., Jones, P., Wiseman, P. & Goodenough, J. B. LixCoO2 (0<x<-1): a new cathode material for batteries of high energy density. Mater. Res. Bull. 15, 783–789 (1980). Bednorz, J. G. & Müller, K. A. Possible high Tc superconductivity in the Ba–La–Cu–O system. Z. Phys. B Condens. Matter 64, 189–193 (1986).

- 2. Mizushima, K., Jones, P., Wiseman, P. & Goodenough, J. B. LixCoO2 (0<x<-1): a new cathode material for batteries of high energy density. Mater. Res. Bull. 15, 783–789 (1980). Bednorz, J. G. & Müller, K. A. Possible high Tc superconductivity in the Ba–La–Cu–O system. Z. Phys. B Condens. Matter 64, 189–193 (1986).

- 4. Ceder, G. et al. Identification of cathode materials for lithium batteries guided by

5.

6.

first-principles calculations. Nature 392, 694–696 (1998). Tabor, D. P. et al. Accelerating the discovery of materials for clean energy in the era of smart automation. Nat. Rev. Mater. 3, 5–20 (2018). Liu, C. et al. Two-dimensional materials for next-generation computing technologies. Nat. Nanotechnol. 15, 545–557 (2020).

- 7. Nørskov, J. K., Bligaard, T., Rossmeisl, J. & Christensen, C. H. Towards the computational

design of solid catalysts. Nat. Chem. 1, 37–46 (2009).

- 8. Greeley, J., Jaramillo, T. F., Bonde, J., Chorkendorff, I. & Nørskov, J. K. Computational

high-throughput screening of electrocatalytic materials for hydrogen evolution. Nat. Mater. 5, 909–913 (2006).

GNoME models have already found 2.2 million stable crystals with respect to previous work and enabled previously impossible modelling capabilities for materials scientists. Some open problems remain for the transition of findings in applications, including a greater understand- ing of phase transitions through competing polymorphs, dynamic stability arising from vibrational profiles and configurational entro- pies and, ultimately, synthesizability. Nevertheless, we see pretrained, general-purpose GNoME models being used as powerful tools across a diverse range of applications to fundamentally accelerate materials discovery.

- 9. Gómez-Bombarelli, R. et al. Design of efficient molecular organic light-emitting diodes by a high-throughput virtual screening and experimental approach. Nat. Mater. 15, 1120–1127 (2016).

- 10. de Leon, N. P. et al. Materials challenges and opportunities for quantum computing