# Precision of stable prediction

Fig. 1 | GNoME enables efficient discovery. a, A summary of the GNoME-based discovery shows how model-based filtration and DFT serve as a data flywheel to improve predictions. b, Exploration enabled by GNoME has led to 381,000 new stable materials, almost an order of magnitude larger than previous work. c, 736 structures have been independently experimentally verified, with six examples shown50–55. d, Improvements from graph network predictions enable

We demonstrate the promise of these potentials for materials prop- erty prediction through the estimation of ionic conductivity from molecular-dynamics simulations.

Overview of generation and filtration The space of possible materials is far too large to sample in an unbiased manner. Without a reliable model to cheaply approximate the energy of candidates, researchers guided searches by restricting generation with chemical intuition, accomplished by substituting similar ions or enumerating prototypes22. Although improving search efficiency17,27, this strategy fundamentally limited how diverse candidates could be. By guiding searches with neural networks, we are able to use diversified methods for generating candidates and perform a broader exploration of crystal space without sacrificing efficiency.

To generate and filter candidates, we use two frameworks, which are visualized in Fig. 1a. First, structural candidates are generated by modifications of available crystals. However, we strongly augment the set of substitutions by adjusting ionic substitution probabilities to give priority to discovery and use newly proposed symmetry aware partial substitutions (SAPS) to efficiently enable incomplete replace- ments32. This expansion results in more than 109 candidates over the