## network architectures. Comput. Phys. Commun. 256, 107402 (2020).

- 50. Zhou, Y., Qiu, Y., Mishra, V. & Mar, A. Lost horses on the frontier: K2BiCl5 and K3Bi2Br9.

J. Solid State Chem. 304, 122621 (2021).

- 51. Abudurusuli, A. et al. Li4MgGe2S7: the first alkali and alkaline-earth diamond-like infrared nonlinear optical material with exceptional large band gap. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 60, 24131–24136 (2021).

- 52. Ruan, B.-B., Yang, Q.-S., Zhou, M.-H., Chen, G.-F. & Ren, Z.-A. Superconductivity in a new

T2-phase Mo5GeB2. J. Alloys Compd. 868, 159230 (2021).

- 53. Guo, Z. et al. Local distortions and metal–semiconductor–metal transition in quasi-one- dimensional nanowire compounds AV3Q3Oδ (A = K, Rb, Cs and Q = Se, Te). Chem. Mater. 33, 2611–2623 (2021).

- 54. Deng, A. et al. Novel narrow-band blue light-emitting phosphor of Eu2+-activated silicate used for WLEDs. Dalton Trans. 50, 16377–16385 (2021).

- 55. Zhak, O., Köhler, J., Karychort, O. & Babizhetskyy, V. New ternary phosphides RE5Pd9P7

(RE=Tm, Lu): synthesis, crystal and electronic structure. Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 648, e202200024 (2022).

- 56. Zuo, Y. et al. Performance and cost assessment of machine learning interatomic potentials.

J. Phys. Chem. A 124, 731–745 (2020).

Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate

credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.