---
source_path: s41586-023-06735-9.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7d8df52c10014560ad3da8e38176875f6a84f9ed
title: s41586-023-06735-9
---
# –1 PBE energy (eV atom–1) 0 Fig. 2 | Summaries of discovered stable crystals. a, GNoME enables efficient discovery in the combinatorial spaces of 4+ unique elements that can be difficult for human experts. b, Phase-separation energies (energy to the convex hull) for discovered quaternaries showcase similar patterns but larger absolute numbers than previous catalogues. c, Discovered stable crystals correspond to 45,500 novel prototypes as measured by XtalFinder (ref. 39). d, Validation by r2SCAN shows that 84% of discovered binary and ternary crystals retain negative phase separations with more accurate functionals. elements. We follow the message-passing formulation35,36, in which aggregate projections are shallow multilayer perceptrons (MLPs) with swish nonlinearities. For structural models, we find it important to normalize messages from edges to nodes by the average adjacency of atoms across the entire dataset. Initial models are trained on a snapshot of the Materials Project from 2018 of approximately 69,000 materials. Previous work benchmarked this task at a mean absolute error (MAE) of 28 meV atom−1 (ref. 37); however, we find that the improved networks achieve a MAE of 21 meV atom−1. We fix this promising architecture (see Methods) and focus on scaling in the rest of this paper. scaling up the model. We also demonstrate emergent generalization to out-of-distribution tasks by testing structural models trained on data originating from substitutions on crystals arising from random search26 in Fig. 1e. These examples are often high-energy local minima and out of distribution compared with data generated by our struc- tural pipeline (which, by virtue of substitutions, contains structures near their minima). Nonetheless, we observe clear improvement with scale. These results indicate that final GNoME models are a substan- tial step towards providing the community with a universal energy predictor, capable of handling diverse materials structures through deep learning. Active learning A core step in our framework for accelerating materials discovery is active learning. In both structural and compositional frameworks, candidate structures filtered using GNoME are evaluated using DFT calculations with standardized settings from the Materials Project. Resulting energies of relaxed structures not only verify the stabil- ity of crystal structures but are also incorporated into the iterative active-learning workflow as further training data and structures for candidate generation. Whereas the hit rate for both structural and compositional frameworks start at less than 6% and 3%, respectively, performance improves steadily through six rounds of active learning. Final ensembles of GNoME models improve to a prediction error of 11 meV atom−1 on relaxed structures and hit rates of greater than 80% and 33%, respectively, clearly showing the benefits of scale. An analysis of final GNoME hit rates is provided in Fig. 1d. Scaling laws and generalization The test loss performance of GNoME models exhibit improvement as a power law with further data. These results are in line with neural scal- ing laws in deep learning28,38 and suggest that further discovery efforts could continue to improve generalization. Emphatically, unlike the case of language or vision, in materials science, we can continue to gener- ate data and discover stable crystals, which can be reused to continue Discovered stable crystals Using the described process of scaling deep learning for materials exploration, we increase the number of known stable crystals by almost an order of magnitude. In particular, GNoME models found 2.2 million crystal structures stable with respect to the Materials Pro- ject. Of these, 381,000 entries live on the updated convex hull as newly discovered materials. Consistent with other literature on structure prediction, the GNoME materials could be bumped off the convex hull by future discoveries, similar to how GNoME displaces at least 5,000 ‘stable’ materials from the Materials Project and the OQMD. See Supplementary Note 1 for dis- cussion on improving structures of already-discovered compositions. Nevertheless, Figs. 1 and 2 provide a summary of the stable materials, with Fig. 1b focusing on the growth over time. We see substantial gains in the number of structures with more than four unique elements in Fig. 2a. This is particularly promising because these materials have proved difficult for previous discovery efforts27. Our scaled GNoME models overcome this obstacle and enable efficient discovery in com- binatorially large regions. Clustering by means of prototype analysis39 supports the diversity of discovered crystals with GNoME, leading to more than 45,500 novel 82 | Nature | Vol 624 | 7 December 2023 prototypes in Fig. 2c (a 5.6 times increase from 8,000 of the Materials Project), which could not have arisen from full substitutions or proto- type enumeration. Finally, in Fig. 2b, we compare the phase-separation energy (also referred to as the decomposition enthalpy) of discovered quaternaries with those from the Materials Project to measure the relative distance to the convex hull of all other competing phases. The similarities in distribution suggest that the found materials are meaningfully stable with respect to competing phases and not just ‘filling in the convex hull.’ Further analyses of materials near to (but not on) the updated convex hull is given in Supplementary Note 3. Validation through experimental matching and r2SCAN All candidates for GNoME are derived from snapshots of databases made in March 2021, including the Materials Project and the OQMD. Concurrent to our discovery efforts, researchers have continued to experimentally create new crystals, providing a way to validate GNoME findings. Of the experimental structures aggregated in the ICSD, 736 match structures that were independently obtained through GNoME. Six of the experimentally matched structures are presented in Fig. 1c and further details of the experimental matches are provided in Sup- plementary Note 1. Similarly, of the 3,182 compositions added to the Materials Project since the snapshot, 2,202 are available in the GNoME database and 91% match on structure. A manual check of ‘newly’ dis- covered crystals supported the findings, with details in Supplementary Note 4. We also validate predictions to ensure that model-based explora- tion did not overfit simulation parameters. We focus on the choice of functional. Standard projector augmented wave (PAW)-Perdew– Burke–Ernzerhof (PBE) potentials provided a speed–accuracy trade-off suited for large-scale discovery40,41, but the r2SCAN functional provides a more accurate meta-generalized gradient approximation29,42,43. 84% of the discovered binaries and ternary materials also present negative phase-separation energies (as visualized in Fig. 2d, comparable with a 90% ratio in the Materials Project but operating at a larger scale). 86.8% of tested quaternaries also remain stable on the r2SCAN convex hull. The discrepancies between PBE and r2SCAN energies are further analysed in Supplementary Note 2. Composition families of interest We highlight the benefits of a catalogue of stable materials an order of magnitude larger than previous work. When searching for a material with certain desirable properties, researchers often filter such cata- logues, as computational stability is often linked with experimental realizability. We perform similar analyses for three applications. First, layered materials are promising systems for electronics and energy storage44. Methods from previous studies45 suggest that approximately 1,000 layered materials are stable compared with the Materials Project, whereas this number increases to about 52,000 with GNoME-based discoveries. Similarly, following a holistic screening approach with filters such as exclusion of transition metals or by lithium fraction, we find 528 promising Li-ion conductors among GNoME discoveries, a 25 times increase compared with the original study46. Finally, Li/Mn transition-metal oxides are a promising family to replace LiCoO2 in rechargeable batteries25 and GNoME has discovered an extra 15 can- didates stable relative to the Materials Project compared with the original nine. Scaling up learned interatomic potentials The process of discovery of stable crystals also provides a data source beyond stable materials. In particular, the ionic relaxations involve computation of first-principles energies and forces for a diverse set of materials structures. This generates a dataset of unprecedented diversity and scale, which we explore to pretrain a general-purpose machine-learning interatomic potential (MLIP) for bulk solids. MLIPs have become a promising tool to accelerate the simulation of materials by learning the energies and forces of reference structures computed at first-principles accuracy30,47–49. Existing efforts typically train models per material, with data often sampled from ab initio molecular dynam- ics (AIMD). This markedly limits their general applicability and adop- tion, requiring expensive data collection and training a new potential from scratch for each system. By making use of the GNoME dataset of first-principles calculations from diverse structural relaxations, we demonstrate that large-scale pretraining of MLIPs enables models that show unprecedented zero-shot accuracy and can be used to discover superionic conductors, without training on any material-specific data. Zero-shot scaling and generalization We scale pretraining of a NequIP potential30 on data sampled from ionic relaxations. Increasing the pretraining dataset, we observe consist- ent power-law improvements in accuracy (see Fig. 3a,b). Despite only being trained on ionic relaxations and not on molecular-dynamics data, the pretrained GNoME potential shows remarkable accuracy when evaluated on downstream data sampled from the new distribu- tion of AIMD in a zero-shot manner, that is, in which no training data originate from AIMD simulations (see Fig. 3). Notably, this includes unseen compositions, melted structures and structures including vacancies, all of which are not included in our training
