---
source_path: talent_management_a_critical_review.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6f3c4903c595b1c4d6916be92e24cdf287ea7512
title: talent_management_a_critical_review
---
## R.E. Lewis, R.J. Heckman / Human Resource Management Review 16 (2006) 139–154

result from decisions at each level that affect a previous are illustrated. Beginning with the outcomes of interest to most organizations (share/stock price, profitability, and industry peer comparisons) and strategy and sustainable competitive advantage (outlined in the work of Porter, 1996 and Barney, 1991 and 2001), organizations can use a decision science of talent management (what Boudreau and Ramstad (2005) call talentship) to identify the strategic implications with respect to talent. Questions at this level mainly concern how talent pools can be segmented. Boudreau and Ramstad (2005) focus on the strategic impact of talent while Zuboff (1988) focuses on high-value/difficult-to-replace talent. It may also be useful to consider “critical path” talent-skills that may be necessary at certain times in order to achieve a strategy. The main task at this level is to segment talent in a way that is consistent with the organization's strategy and addresses the strategic implications for talent.

Once talent pools are identified and segmented it becomes possible to develop talent pool strategies. For instance, once an organization understands that one talent pool is pivotal and another is not the organization can then apply different strategic approaches to compensation, performance management, job design, and other talent management practices. For instance, the pivotal talent pool might need to be populated with 40% “A” performers while the non -pivotal pool might need only 20%. By the same token perhaps it is necessary to pay the pivotal talent pool above the market rate and the non-pivotal pool at the market rate. Note that this is not a matter of designing the practice of performance management or compensation — the same principles of goal setting, feedback, and rewards still apply and the same performance management and compensation systems can accommodate both talent pools. The question at this level isn't “How do we implement a practice?” but “What do we want this practice to do to our talent pool?”

Next in the hierarchy are the talent management systems (the core competency architecture and HRIS or enterprise software systems) and talent practices (selection, recruiting, training and development, etc.) levels. Although strong analysis can support any level of the hierarchy, most practitioners would probably be comfortable placing analytics at the talent management systems level since that is where the data will ultimately reside. Questions regarding the competency architecture of the organization (the degree to which jobs are linked by common or graduated competencies) and the ease with which data can be aggregated will determine how effectively analytics can be used to guide talent practices. Practices, as noted previously, involve the efficient administration of HR specialty and generalist areas such as performance management and training and development.

We believe that each of these levels can benefit from future work that develops the connections among them and investigates more deeply the elements within them. We believe opportunities exist even for areas already heavily researched. For instance, it is common in strategic HRM research to assess practices by noting the number and/or quality of the practices implemented by an organization and then correlating these with outcomes such as profitability. It is uncommon to account for whether the practices measured are coordinated in any fashion. We found no study that examined whether selection practices, for instance, were linked to training and development interventions. Accounting for the extent to which practices are coordinated (e.g. applicants for a role are both selected and developed on a related set of competencies) may serve to clarify further the impact of HR practices on proximal (engaged leaders and team members) and distal (improved business performance) outcomes.

Finally, the nonrecursive impacts of decisions at each level of the hierarchy can be studied. Some of the questions that may result are included in the right column of Fig. 3. It is quite likely that implementing high-quality talent practices will change the quality of a talent pool by making the organization more attractive, more selective, or both. This, in turn, will likely change the talent pool strategy and perhaps the “pivotal-ness” of or “value-added” by certain pools. At this point it then becomes feasible to consider whether the development of a new talent segment engenders a new competitive advantage and new business opportunities.

While it is both aggressive and incomplete, the framework outlined in Fig. 3 illustrates several opportunities. Strategic HRM research has typically related talent practices to organizational outcomes without assessing the intervening steps. Practitioner advocates of TM have made the large leap from vaguely defined strategic implications to either talent management systems or talent practices. And advocates of “analytics” have typically not considered the context within which analyses are to be interpreted.
