---
source_path: talent_management_a_critical_review.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 948ae21173e8304c9b8447dfc724176c2e8f06f5
title: talent_management_a_critical_review
---
## R.E. Lewis, R.J. Heckman / Human Resource Management Review 16 (2006) 139–154

the strategic HRM research). Other applications of this grid are possible, for instance, classifying talent based on demands that result from the position the organization occupies in its life cycle (Sloan & Lewis, 2003).

Although Zuboff's (1988) model incorporates more strategic elements than most others it still places talent management in the position of responding to strategic needs already defined by the organization or exogenous events. That is, these approaches detail how talent should be managed when strategy emerges, or the environment (labor pool, technology) changes, but fail to detail how talent, in turn, influences the development of strategy. If TM is to be as strategic as its proponents hope it must shape organizational strategy, not simply respond quickly to the implications of strategy. TM needs to develop a point of view regarding how talent decisions are made. In the words of Boudreau and Ramstad (2005), “HR must have a unique, talent-focused perspective for improving decisions, not just a process for implementing decisions” (p. 21).

Two streams of research seem to hold the promise of creating a truly strategic approach to talent management. Both draw from strategy work developed in fields outside human resources and apply those fundamental concepts to strategic decisions regarding talent. Barney (1991, 2001) advocates a resource-based view (RBV) perspective rooted in the industrial organization management and economic literature to explore the role of talent in producing firm wide or process specific results. Boudreau and Ramstad (2005) integrated principles of strategy, economics, and human resources, and drew lessons from the evolution of the fields of finance and marketing, to develop a decision science that can underpin talent management they call “talentship”. We will consider each in turn.

Barney (1991, 2001) argues that sustained competitive advantage accrues to firms that develop resources that are valuable, rare, and hard to imitate. Valuable resources allow organizations to exploit opportunities, say by applying a core technological advantage to an emerging need or transforming a resource so it is seen as valuable in new environmental contexts. One firm controls rare resources rather than many; that is, resources or capabilities that are common offer little competitive advantage since all have access to them. Finally, imitability refers to the extent to which a resource can be duplicated or effectively replaced with a substitute. Resources that are hard to imitate will likely provide advantages over the long run.

What, exactly, are resources? According to Barney (1995), “[a] firm's resources and capabilities include all of the financial, physical, human, and organizational assets used by a firm to develop, manufacture, and deliver products or services to its customers” (p. 50). The value, rarity, and imitability of resources may change over time. Thus, categorizing resources according to these three dimensions in response to external threats is crucial for understanding the alternatives and likely outcomes available to a firm. An organization with a valuable resource that becomes common slips from a position of competitive advantage to one of competitive parity. Organizations with hard to imitate resources or capabilities that no longer have value (due to, say, a quantum change in technology or changes in market preferences) also lose competitive advantage. Possessing valuable and rare resources can provide a temporary advantage that is eroded over time as other organizations duplicate the resource or find cost-effective substitutes.

Talent, of course, can be categorized as valuable, rare, and hard-to-imitate but the specific prescriptions regarding talent are not always clear. For instance, when discussing valuable resources Barney commonly (1991, 1995) discusses organizational-level competencies in the manner of Prahalad and Hamel (1990). Having talented people is clearly implied but it is not clear how to separate the contribution to value of technology versus people. Rarity as well has talent implications, but the contribution of “talent” to developing rare resources is similarly unclear as the unit of analysis is the organization, not the talent pool.

Perhaps the dimension most closely linked to talent is imitability. Barney (1995) notes that companies, through their people, gain skills and abilities over time and develop a culture, social networks, and an organizational/management structure that manages those skills and abilities and is hard for competitors to duplicate. Much of the research on the resource based view focuses on the extent to which organizations have developed human resource-based practices or processes (Lepak & Snell, 2002; Lepak et al., 2003; Ray, Barney, & Muhana, 2004; Wright et al., 2003; Youndt et al., 1996) and thus it is the dominant theory underlying strategic HRM (McMahan, Virik, & Wright, 1999).

A key challenge in this line of research is to describe the processes that explain the relationship between practices and an organization's performance. Wright and Haggerty (2005) note that the practice-outcome link, as operationalized in research studies and theoretical models, is generally distal and the level of analysis is the firm. In other words, individuals (the “talent” usually referred to by practitioners of talent management) are omitted from the model. Wright and Haggerty (2005) call attention to the need develop more complete strategic HRM models that account for multiple levels of analysis, the effect of time, and causality.
