data/clean/talent_management_a_critical_review__chunk0043.md, before:

## R.E. Lewis, R.J. Heckman / Human Resource Management Review 16 (2006) 139–154

Without understanding the context of the decision to implement a multirater intervention (why that particular intervention was chosen and the goal in implementing it) it becomes impossible to evaluate its impact. Perhaps the high performing organizations that did not implement multirater tools facilitate feedback via other, equally effective, means and the organizations that experienced low returns did so because of factors other than the multi-rater tool.

Boudreau and Ramstad's (2005) call to develop a decision science that frames talent-related decisions thus warrants attention. Better specification of the decision framework also permits a more proactive use of the talent/resource classification approaches used so effectively by Zuboff (1988) and Barney (1991). For instance, Zuboff's observation that it is possible to “informate” a low-value/difficult-to-replace job and transform it to one of “high value” does not address the question of when one should informate a job. That is, the pre-conditions to that decision are not specified. Similarly, classifying talent as “hard to imitate” does not advance the discussion of when investments should be directed to making a talent pool hard-to-imitate.

Thus, while we know from the strategic HRM literature that well-developed practices can have an effect on organizational outcomes we have no clear theory or principles to guide when or which organizational pools should be targeted. These decisions are crucial — allocating organizational resources to one talent pool or another (or to talent in general rather than technology or marketing investments) should be defended not only on the basis of some outcome measure but also on the basis of a strong link to strategy and the framing of strategic options.

To that end it is possible to propose a high-level hierarchy of the components of a strategic talent management process (see Fig. 3). This hierarchy is by no means intended to be a fully specified model. Instead, it is a conceptual framework that begins to separate the questions that have been addressed in the TM and strategic HRM literature so as to provide perspective. The components of the hierarchy are in the left column. In the right column are the questions that arise as one moves down the hierarchy and, illustrating the systems implications of the hierarchy, questions that

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/talent_management_a_critical_review__chunk0043.md, after:

---
source_path: talent_management_a_critical_review.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2b479e26a8a345e5e72252e38179165fb3a67d0a
title: talent_management_a_critical_review
---
# 6.1. TM decision architecture

The typical research study in the large body of strategic HRM literature begins with an examination of the HR practices and/or talent investment decisions of an organization and determines the strength of the relationship with strategically relevant (profitability, share price) or tactically relevant (turnover) outcomes. The decisions that led to that initial state – why the organization chose (or chose not) to invest in strong selection systems or leader development systems in the first place – are left unexamined. Yet, understanding these initial conditions is crucial for interpreting the HR practice-outcome linkage. At least one frequently cited study found a negative relationship between a common HR practice (the use of multi-rater feedback tools) and organizational performance (Watson Wyatt Worlwide, 2001).
