---
source_path: talent_management_a_critical_review.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ec1ef0f08613668034963f795dbc039a7d9cef32
title: talent_management_a_critical_review
---
## R.E. Lewis, R.J. Heckman / Human Resource Management Review 16 (2006) 139–154

assume that all employees are equally valuable to the firm from an economic and developmental perspective. It harkens back to a view of human resources (such as the maxim to provide 40 h of training for everyone) inconsistent with current demands (Boudreau & Ramstad, 2005). If managing each person's talent so it is fully actualized means finding a tactful way of separating low performers from the organization while providing relevant opportunities to others then this approach simply reduces to the definition of “TM as HR”.

Advocates of managing talent by placing people in performance categories are similarly non-strategic. The notion that a certain percentage of performers should be routinely sloughed from the organization (or that all positions should be filled with extraordinarily high performers) ignores the possibility that, for some jobs, competent performance may be perfectly acceptable (Boudreau & Ramstad, 2005) or that an organization may wish to maximize organizational capabilities on certain competencies while it de-emphasizes others (Prahalad & Hamel, 1990). Even if such approaches made sense for an organization, its advocates offer little sound advice for implementing them. For instance, while some advocate a “rigorous” review of talent involving a debate regarding the performance and potential of each person in the organization (Handfield-Jones, Michaels, & Axelrod, 2001) the extensive literature on issues associated with rater's goals and errors in performance appraisals (e.g. Cleveland, Murphy, & Williams, 1989; Murphy, Cleveland, Skattebo, & Kinney, 2004) is ignored.

Indeed, perhaps this indicates the core problem with this approach to TM; it is rooted in exhortation and anecdote rather than data and builds an argument based the selective self-reports of executives. A typical example is provided by Handfield-Jones et al. (2001): a CEO leading a struggling company realizes talent is the key to growth and staffs the organization with high quality personnel. “Over the next three years…the company's performance improved dramatically. Profits grew from $285 million (U.S.) to $445 million (U.S.), and the company's stock price almost doubled. To be sure, talent was not the only lever…” (p. 52). Indeed, the company also significantly changed its merchandising processes, acquired new businesses while selling others, and reconfigured its brand portfolio. Talent, however, “was the most important thing. Without better talent, most of the other actions would not have been successful” (p. 52).

Clearly, a testable model is being advanced (talent as a mediator of the effect of business portfolio and process restructuring on profitability and stock price appreciation) with no data to test it. Left unacknowledged by the authors is the fact that these events occurred at the beginning of the U.S. economic boom of the 1990s. And the company in question by 2005 saw its profitability slip 76% (Turner, 2005). If the talent mindset was so firmly established in this company (and the talent so good) why the downturn in results? We do suspect talent is important in this case, the question is: How much and in what way? The lack of methodological and measurement rigor characteristic of this approach makes it impossible to conclude the degree to which results can be attributed to talent, technology, specific industry dynamics, the economy in general, or any other factor.

To date, the criticisms of the “War for Talent” approach to TM have been equally unburdened by rigorous data analysis. Eichenwald (2005) details the misapplication of a talent review process and its deleterious effects at Enron while Gladwell (2002) criticizes this approach for promoting a nearly exclusive focus on individuals rather than the many organizational attributes (team structure, physical capital) that support them. These criticisms are based on interviews (in the case of Eichenwald) and selected findings from social psychology research (in the case of Gladwell) but neither of these writers was central to the Enron story. The application of “talent management” techniques is widely seen has having contributed to the fall of a CEO at another large organization (“Ford ignored its human needs”, 2002) but, as was the case for articles written in support of these TM approaches, other factors are not explicitly considered or are assumed to be of lesser importance.

In summary, the topic “talent management” has been enthusiastically pursued in the trade and popular press without being linked systematically to peer-reviewed, researched-based findings. And it has been defined largely in ways that have not contributed to our understanding of managing talent in organizations. TM seems to be the new phrase designed to re-package standard solutions to HR challenges (select, staff, and develop “talent” well) or to stress the need to respond to demographic changes. Popular books written by practitioners propose broad concepts for managing talent (e.g., link your people to your strategy; upgrade your organization's talent) illustrated with carefully selected analogies and anecdotes that are otherwise unsupported. To the extent that research literature is cited in these publications, the prescriptions tend to simply repeat or repackage HR practices rooted solidly in academic literature (e.g., use validated selection instruments, set challenging goals and provide feedback, rotate employees through roles that provide challenges). In these cases, TM is nothing more than the application of sound HR practices. Often, however, authors propose contradictory practices.
