---
source_path: talent_management_a_critical_review.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 490d12d7b13cb2b47558392894de516fbf13c5bf
title: talent_management_a_critical_review
---
## R.E. Lewis, R.J. Heckman / Human Resource Management Review 16 (2006) 139–154

simulateavarietyoforganizationsandstaffingplanning problems. Enterprisetalentmanagement systems thatcatalogue workforce skills and the demand and supply of employees have the advantage of considering more jobs simultaneously than most manpower models, but perform essentially the same task.

A third perspective on TM focuses on talent generically; that is, without regard for organizational boundaries or specific positions. Within this perspective two general views on talent emerge. The first regards talent (which typically means high performing and high potential talent) as an unqualified good and a resource to be managed primarily according to performance levels. That is, highly competent performers are to be sought, hired, and differentially rewarded regardless of their specific role or, in some cases, the organization's specific needs. Thus, in contrast with the second perspective outlined above, organizations are encouraged to manage performance pools of talent generally rather than succession pools for specific jobs. Advocates of this approach classify employees by performance level (e.g., “A”, “B”, and “C” levels to denote top, competent, and bottom performers, respectively) and either encourage rigorously terminating “C” players (the “War for Talent” approach advocated by Axelrod, Handfield-Jones, & Michaels, 2002; Michaels, Handfield-Jones, & Axelrod, 2001) or “topgrading” the organization via exclusively hiring “A” players (Smart, 1999). For example, topgrading is defined as “packing entire companies with A players – high performers, from senior management to minimum wage employees – those in the top 10% of talent for their pay”. (“Welcome to topgrading”, 2005).

The second perspective of generic talent regards it as an undifferentiated good and emerges from the both the humanistic and demographic perspectives. Talent is critical because it is the role of a strong HR function to manage everyone to high performance (Buckingham & Vosburgh, 2001; Walker & Larocco, 2002) or because demographic and business trends make talent in general more valuable (Gandossy & Kao, 2004; Romans & Lardner, 2005; Tucker, Kao, & Verma, 2005).

- 2. Problems with TM as currently defined

It is apparent from the above that the term “talent management” has no clear meaning. It is used in too many ways and is often a means to highlight the “strategic” importance of a HR specialty (recruiting, selection, development, etc.) without adding to the theory or practice of that specialty. Or, it is employed to pitch a compelling anecdote regarding the importance of managing talent. “Talent” is essentially a euphemism for “people” and because the perspectives regarding how people can and should be managed varies so greatly the TM literature can recommend contradictory advice (see the “War for Talent” versus “topgrading” approaches above).

The three perspectives on TM that emerged from our literature review are similarly unsatisfying. Defining TM in terms of the functions of traditional HR executed more quickly (or via the internet or enterprise-wide software systems) adds nothing to our understanding of how to “manage talent”. Managing recruiting, selection, and staffing via the internet may require the addition of some new skills to an HR generalist's or recruiter's skill set but does not fundamentally change the principles underlying good recruiting, selection, and staffing. Thus the first use of TM is superfluous. Perhaps it serves the purpose of re-branding HR practices to keep them seemingly new and fresh, but it does not advance our understanding of the strategic and effective management of talent.

The second perspective simply repeats much of the work done in succession and workforce planning and therefore fails to advance the theory or practice of HR. That is not to say that advances in succession management techniques or a closer integration with the organizational staffing models developed in the management sciences would not be fruitful. In fact, we feel the succession planning work driven by HR could benefit greatly from reviewing that literature. We simply suggest that calling these approaches “talent management” causes the same problems as the first perspective; it provides no incremental understanding and is therefore unnecessary.

The third perspective of TM is perhaps the most problematic. On the one hand it is an appealing message on at least two levels. We suspect the vast majority of HR practitioners would resonate to the following quote “If we deal only with programs and processes, then we never touch what is ultimately our greatest strategic differentiator: The talent inherent in each person, oneindividual at a time”.(Buckingham & Vosburgh,2001,p.18) In a similar vein, most high performers would probably like to be surrounded by other high performers rather than low performers and filling every job with a 90th percentile performer, at first glance, appears to be a sensible way to enhance the performance of an organization. On the other hand, the aspirational message and compelling anecdotes underlying these approaches mask several problems. First, the maxim to manage the “talent inherent in each person” is well intended but not strategic. It offers no guidance to determine how many resources should be allocated to uncovering each employee's talent and seems to
