---
source_path: talent_management_a_critical_review.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5c5021d471df9f293d9be45a23382f0615f4218f
title: talent_management_a_critical_review
---
## R.E. Lewis, R.J. Heckman / Human Resource Management Review 16 (2006) 139–154

difficult. However, the ease with which data tables relating human resource to financial (or other organizational) data can be created is likely to cause problems if there is no conceptual model to guide which questions should be researched, which data should be linked, or if decision-makers have no context for interpreting the results. While the practitioner literature tends to emphasize the power and ease with which data can be analyzed we see little discussion regarding the framing of the questions “analytics” are presumed to answer and how decision-makers will use those answers to effect talent changes.

Boudreau and Ramstad (2004) outline the conditions under which “analytics” can yield valid organizational conclusions. Their “LAMP” framework outlines the Logic structure, Analytics, Measures, and Process considerations necessary to influence talent decisions. First, a logical structure or conceptual model linking talent pools to an organization's competitive advantage is necessary to generate meaningful questions regarding talent. For Boudreau and Ramstad, these questions concern the decisions that might be made with respect to the talent pool (as well as other talent issues). With this logical structure in place, strong analytics can yield insights into organizational issues. Boudreau and Ramstad view “analytics” more expansively than simply statistical analysis. In effect, they see it as a competence in general research skills. “What is analytics? It draws on statistics and research design, but it goes beyond them, to include skill in identifying and articulating key issues, gathering and using appropriate data from within and outside the HR function, setting the appropriate standards for rigor and relevance, and enhancing the analytical competencies of HR throughout the organization” (p. 7). Thus, analytics requires savvy in drawing from sources of data to address questions guided by the logic structure.

Measures includes typical HR measurements such as headcount and turnover rates. The challenge regarding measurements, according to Boudreau and Ramstad, is to balance precision with usefulness. They caution that more exacting measures (increasingly precise headcount figures, for example) may not increase the quality of talent decisions. Finally, Boudreau and Ramstad address the change management process typically overlooked in discussions of analytics. Just as a model or logical structure is necessary for interpreting measures, a change management process is necessary to implement decisions.

Balancing attention to the four elements of the LAMP framework is crucial. Overemphasizing analytics can lead to sophisticated analyses with no connection to talent decisions while overemphasizing process may start the organization down a path toward an objective that is not strategically relevant. In developing the LAMP framework, Boudreau and Ramstad note that “analytics” is not a “new class of business intelligence” or a set of measures arrayed in a dashboard. Lacking a conceptual model to guide analyses, or a process for implementing the results, the practitioner focus on “analytics” is likely to lead the field toward very elegant analyses and exacting measures that fail to address the needs of talent decision-makers.

- 6. Future directions for research

Several areas of research must be pursued for TM to add a lasting contribution to the field of human resources. First, core elements of the TM decision architecture need to be fully identified and tested. Doing so permits the development of a theory of talent that facilitates the development and testing of fully specified TM models. Second, analytical techniques that permit a system-level of analysis must be investigated and more fully incorporated into talent management work. This includes analyses at multiple levels of the organization and the specification of the impact of talent-related decisions throughout the organization. Finally, measures consistent with talent architectures and system analyses must be developed and held to professionally recognized standards of reliability and validity. Each of these research needs will be considered in turn.
