## R.E. Lewis, R.J. Heckman / Human Resource Management Review 16 (2006) 139–154

jobs and organizational levels (Stahlman and Lewis, Pegels, 1981) individual difference factors are usually ignored. That is, these models generally do not distinguish high from low performers.

Yet, it is precisely this type of research that would be helpful to HR practitioners. For example, organizations commonly pursue competitive advantage via a “promote from within” talent pool strategy, which implies linking selection and development interventions across talent pools. In the retail industry, for instance, entry-level clerks are a feeder pool for assistant manager positions, which in turn is a feeder pool for the store manager position, which is a feeder pool for a multiple-unit management job (see Fig. 4).

While the science and practice of selecting and staffing for any given position in this hierarchy is clear the implications of considering all four simultaneously are not. If we agree for this example that the competencies and traits that predict high performance as an entry-level retail clerk are different than those that predict high performance as a manager of multiple store units, then implementing a selection tool to maximize performance of the entry level pool may create a pool of talent unable to perform at higher levels and thereby hinder the organization's ability to pursue a promote-from-within strategy. Several powerful questions emerge. How could selection test cut scores be set in order to ensure a flow of employees across these organizational levels consistent with anticipated organizational growth? When might a boundary limit be reached that requires a change in strategy (such as recruiting externally)? And, what unintended consequences might ensue from changing from a pure (hire from within) to “mixed” strategy?

In essence, research is needed to pursue development of models and analytical approaches that permit a systems analysis of talent decisions throughout the organization. Once the strategic talent direction is determined (via the decision framework), the question becomes one of system optimization. That is, determining the set of HR practices applied across linked talent pools that result in achieving the strategic goal. It may be the case that achieving system optimization requires sub-optimizing some talent pools or decisions while optimizing others.

6.3. Developing reliable and valid TM measures

Fulfilling the promise of a rigorous, science-based approach requires adhering to scientific standards of measurement. While that may seem obvious it is disconcerting to note the extent to which fundamental measurement principles are ignored in talent management literature. The current popularity of “workforce analytics” threatens to permit the rapid creation of metrics and “dashboards” with little concern for the validity of those measures. Noted earlier was the ambiguity of interpreting most benchmarking measures and Boudreau and Ramstad (2005) warn of the dangers of developing “…‘HR scorecards’ containing hundreds of indices and data elements, with no guiding framework, hoping that business leaders will invent the required decision science to use them wisely” (p. 23).

Poor measurement appears not to be a characteristic only of newly created measures. Distressingly, it also appears commonplace to avoid assessing the measurement properties of core HR practices. For instance, a large (80+) group of industrial/organizational psychologists attending a roundtable discussion on talent management at a large academic conference were asked to show, by raising hands, how many used performance management/appraisal ratings to identify high-performers as part of their organization's talent management processes. Nearly all practitioners in the room raised their hands. When the follow-up question, “How many of you have assessed your performance