## Shepherd et al. BMC Health Services Research (2019) 19:135

survey. The questionnaire was conducted on an online re- search survey software program. The duration of partici- pation ranged from 10 to 30min. All participants received a $10 online gift voucher for their contribution. Data was collected across the months of August and September in 2016. It is unknown as to exactly how many staff at each organization received the study recruitment email.

Data analyses A mixed methods study design was employed. First, per- centages across participant responses were calculated for all multiple choice items. Second, the four open-ended questions were then qualitatively analysed. After extract- ing the data from the online research survey program, a thematic analysis was undertaken by a primary coder (au- thor DN) using a progressive process of classifying, com- paring, grouping and refining groups of text segments to create and then clarify the definition of categories, or themes, within the data [39]. For the purposes of reliabil- ity, another coder (author SS) independently coded a sub- section of interview notes and cross-checked these with the findings of the primary coder. Following coding, dom- inant themes were cross-checked between raters until a consensus was reached. Participant percentages across categories for the 19 multiple choice questions were calcu- lated and tabled.

Results Data were collected from a total of 56 health care workers. Four additional individuals elected not to consent to participate in the study after viewing the information statement and consent form page. Due to the anonymous nature of the study, the distribution of participants across the four health care organizations was unknown. The mean age of the sample was 38.66 (SD: 12.03, range 20–65) years. The majority were female (n = 52, 92.9%). Over 85% (n = 48) of the sam- ple identified as White/Caucasian, with 8.9% (n = 5) identifying as Hispanic/Latino, 3.6% (n = 2) identifying as Middle Eastern and 1.8% (n = 1) identifying as African-American. The self-described professions of the participants included Nurse/Nurse Practitioner (n = 18, 32.1%), Mental Health Professionals (n = 9, 16.1%), Med- ical Assistants (n = 7, 12.5%), Hospital/Clinic Administra- tors (n= 7, 12.5%), Medical Receptionist (n = 5, 8.9%), Physicians (n = 3, 5.4%), Physiotherapists (n = 2, 3.6%), Interpreters (n = 2, 3.6%), Pharmacist (n = 1, 1.8%), Com- munity Support Worker (n = 1, 1.8%), Medical Lab Tech- nician (n = 1, 1.8%). Regarding years of experience in their current profession, 26.8% (n = 15) of the sample reported more than 20years of experience, 23.2% (n = 13) reported between 11 and 20years of experience, 21.4% (n = 12) re- ported between 5 and 10years of experience, and 28.6% (n = 16) reported less than 5 years of experience.