# Page 7 of 11

Assistant). “I feel we provide all cultures with adequate care” (Physician).

Discussion Cross-cultural educational initiatives for professionals are now commonplace across a variety of sectors including health care. A growing number of studies have attempted to explore the utility of such initiatives on workplace behaviors and client outcomes. Yet few studies have explored how professionals perceive cross-cultural educational models (e.g., cultural aware- ness, cultural competence) and the extent to which they (and their organizations) execute the principles in prac- tice. This study aimed to address this gap in the literature by gathering the perspectives of a sample of health care workers from a Mid-Western state in the United States of America. The insights gained from the research provide a useful contribution to the practical literature on cross-cul- tural professional training. It is important to ascertain the attitudes and professional experiences of health workers when working cross-culturally, to assist in developing functional and effective trainings that are endorsed by the very professionals that they are designed for.

Like prior research [29, 31, 33, 35], the vast majority of the sample acknowledged that a consideration of a client’s culture was of importance. Possessing cultural knowledge was widely perceived to be ‘best practice’ and necessary for effective cross-cultural communica- tion and service delivery. Half the sample agreed that alternative cultural models of health would augment existing approaches to care. There is a wide body of lit- erature illustrating culturally bound models of health and symptom expression styles that are believed to de- viate from, or partially overlap with western diagnostic categories [40, 41]. Other participants may have been unaware of the differing concepts of health and well- being possessed by particular cultural groups. Some may also have perceived that certain cultural or ‘folk’ health beliefs clash with conventional methods to the detriment of their patient, a view documented in prior research with health professionals [27–29, 42]. None- theless, approximately 95% of the sample believed that they always or often attend to the cultural needs of their patients. This near consensus arose despite over 80% of participants sharing that they often or sometimes found it more difficult to engage with or treat patients from cultures different to their own. Additionally, almost 60% acknowledged that their own culture may make some patients uncomfortable. The sample’s apparent confidence in their own abilities to work effectively cross-culturally despite obvious challenges may reflect workplaces com- mitted to cultural competence initiatives and diversity. Some participants in this study may also genuinely be equipped with cultural knowledge and the facility to