# Page 8 of 11

in organizations that possess some of the attributes al- lied with the cultural competence model. Cultural com- petence is an organizational-wide approach to enhancing effective cross-cultural communication which includes a number of interconnecting initiatives (e.g., staff diversity, staff training, interpreter services, improving staff attitudes to cross-cultural care) [15]. Such a framework could potentially engender a safe multi-cultural working envir- onment despite staff not having undergone direct cultural training themselves. In contrast, it is perhaps more likely that participants viewed effective cross-cultural care as es- sentially a communication matter as opposed to a multi- faceted institutional framework. Rather than perceiving cross-cultural care as a broader phenomenon encompass- ing power imbalances, dominant culture biases and contrasting worldviews (interpretations seldom articulated by the sample), most participants may have simply regarded cross-cultural care from an immediate practical standpoint whereby interactive/informational barriers require alleviation; hence the highlighting of interpreter services, staff bi-linguicism and assessment rapport devel- opment. Starr and Wallace [34] found that the availability (or lack of) interpreters and gender-specific providers were some of the most commonly raised themes in a sample of American public health nurses when discussing culturally competent care. Only a small number of participants referred to diversity hiring strategies directly. A tension be- tween affirmative action and colour-blind approaches was evident among some of the responders.

Participants were asked to identify which factors/attri- butes improve cross-cultural care, and more pointedly, to offer recommendations to improve the cultural compe- tence of their own organizations. Two main themes were canvassed in relation to the first question. Participants cited the need for ongoing cross-cultural education and training in the workplace. Responses again appeared to denote the cultural awareness approach – a focus on cul- tural norms, customs and health beliefs - which is the most common form of cross-cultural education univer- sally, yet the most criticized in the literature. Only two participants described the need for training to encompass themes of systemic bias and privilege which reflect the cultural safety approach. Cross-cultural education was the leading recommendation among the sample for improving organizational cultural care. A desire for regular staff meetings on cross-cultural issues was posited. There was also a preference among several respondents to focus attention on the cultural needs of clientele within the or- ganization’s catchment area, a recommendation proffered in previous research. No participants referred to any bur- eaucratic procedures that constrained their ability to work effectively cross-culturally, a finding noted in several prior studies [27, 29, 30]. Somewhat surprisingly, several partici- their organizations were already pants disclosed that