# Training

for workers” (Malone, 2005, p. 67). Workers learn through experience in and reflection on their work practice; they share ideas and stories between themselves (Jarvis, 1987; Harris & Chisholm, 2011)

The significance of learning opportunities that are accessed as part of the employment relationship has been further emphasized by Evans et al. (2006), and conceptualized as learning through the workplace, which is accessed by employees through their relation- ships with the employer. Finally, learning for the workplace refers to learning opportu- nities that may be directly or indirectly related to the job, such as general education or job-specific training, which may take place outside the workplace. The formulation by Evans et al. (2006) of workplace learning as learning in, for, and through the workplace brings together and underpins the individual, organizational, and environmental scales of learning at work.

Considering an organizational perspective, Fuller and Unwin (2011) draw attention to the debate about “high-” and “low-”performing work organizations, further con- cluding that the way work is organized contributes to organizational performance and affects how the workplace is experienced by employees. They caution that high-per- formance management models need to be tested to distinguish how experiences of employees’ groups may differ and to uncover the organizational and sectoral condi- tions influencing their negative or more positive perceptions (Fuller & Unwin, 2011). Such an argument, as Fuller and Unwin (2011) observe, raises the question of how the workplace could be reconfigured to facilitate more efficient organizational learning, where the learning organization should respond to the demands of both the organ- ization and the individual. Realizing learning in organizations has been perceived as one of the challenges in the area of human resource development (HRD) (Marsick & Watkins, 1999; Jayanti, 2012). Remedios and Boreham (2004, p. 220) argue that a necessary feature for an organization to call itself a learning one is that “mechanisms are put in place to optimize the transfer of knowledge between all levels of employees.” A consequence of these mechanisms is the creation of environments where employees recognize that their ideas will be acknowledged and discussed and can influence subsequent working procedures (Remedios & Boreham, 2004, p. 220). The environ- ment is thus integral to the development of work process knowledge in the workforce (Fischer & Boreham, 2004).

This brings us to the discussion of the importance of the individual level. The central role and significance of the self and personal agency is now being accounted for within the explanation of workplace learning (Billett, 2011). Within the workplace, personal expectations and goals act as a motivating direction for the future as personal anticipa- tion and hope are also part of the identity formation process (Gnaur, 2010). Issues such as the significance of individual biography (e.g., Hodkinson et al., 2004; Hodkinson, 1995), individual disposition in relation to workplace opportunities (Ecclestone, Biesta, & Hughes, 2009; Evans et al., 2006; Evans, Kersh, & Sakamoto, 2004) and the impact of individual perspective on knowledge and learning at work (Eraut, 2004) have received recognition in the current debate about the workplace learning. Eraut (2004) argues that situational understanding in the workplace is highly dependent on individual experiences. Although, in his work, he draws strongly on the concept of situated learning, Eraut also maintains that Lave and Wenger’s (1998) treatment of their own concept overlooks the significance of the individual perspective on knowledge and learning. Billet (2011) notes that workplace participatory practices constitute a means of understanding individual participation and learning in the workplace, and further concludes that they comprise a duality between the affordance of the workplace and the individual engagement with that which they are afforded. The affordances and opportunities provided by the workplace are