# Supporting Competence Development through “Basic Skills” Programs in the Workplace

Skills such as literacy, numeracy, and information technology have been identified as essential enablers for employees to engage fully in learning and competence development within their workplaces (Evans & Waite, 2009, 2010; Wolf & Evans, 2011). The signifi- cance of employing “basic skills” in the workplace has been identified as related both to employees’ biographical life experiences and their workplace learning as well as career and life chances. The contemporary workplaces are now increasingly demanding from their employees satisfactory levels of literacy, numeracy, and information technology skills, expecting them to be able to cope with both traditional and online types of paperwork. In the UK the educational and labor market policy context has generated an unprecedented demand for workplace-located basic skills programs as part of a national strategy (Evans, Waite, & Kersh, 2011), which resulted in the setting up of “Skills for Life” courses across all sectors of the economy and public sector starting in 2002. Research (e.g., Evans, Waite, & Kersh, 2011) has indicated that the workplace “Skills for Life” program has been associ- ated with a range of personal and professional outcomes for the employees who took part in these programs. Acquiring or developing relevant basic skills within the workplace has supported some employees into activities that facilitated their competence development (personal or professional) through a range of workplace affordances and life experiences. The extent to which the employees may use, apply, or develop further their skills for life is often integral to the organizational dynamic at work, which either limits or facilitates the workplace environment as a learning space. The research has identified the link between the “Skills for Life” courses and employee motivations and attitudes, specifically related to contrasting the workplace-related provision with school-based learning, which, in some cases, has been associated with negative experiences. Employee engagement in the “Skills for Life” programs in the workplace illustrates the interplay between various configura- tions of the learning space. Embarking on literacy and numeracy courses in the workplace changes and challenges traditional perceptions of the workplace physical space as a location designated for performing exclusively work activities. At the same time, acquiring a range