---
source_path: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c94eb00d6db7235509f8f4eea06c97403820537e
title: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo
---
## Rethinking the “Transferability” of Competences: Tacit vs. Explicit

The debate on work-related competences has highlighted the issue of the significance of developing personal competences and abilities that people can use in a variety of settings, including workplace settings (Evans, 2002; Evans, Kersh, & Sakamoto, 2004; Eraut, 2004). The definition of the term “competence” offered by Eraut and Hirsh (2007), quoted above, emphasizes the important links between individuals’ capabilities and their competences. All their competences will be, as Eraut and Hirsh (2007) explain, within their capability; but not all their capabilities will be needed for any specific job. Therefore, they will also have additional capabilities, which may have a tacit dimension. Such addi- tional capabilities may be helpful both in enhancing one’s competences through further learning (Eraut & Hirsh, 2007) and in facilitating the processes by which competences learned in one context can be developed and used in different contexts and settings. Evans’ research (Evans, Kersh, & Sakamoto, 2004) develops a model of key competences that has emphasized a broad cluster of capabilities coming together in ways that generate growth, movement, and future development, which are important in negotiating changes of work and learning environments, including the following:

- methodological competences, • competences related to attitudes and values, • learning competences, • social and interpersonal competences, and • content-related and practical competences.

This clustering of competences is useful as it provides us with a broad framework for categorizing a range of workplace competences, which may be further developed or applied through workplace affordances and opportunities. Boud and Garrick (1999, p. 1) similarly observe that employees are extending their educational capabilities in learning through their work: “opportunities and problems within work are creating the need for new knowledge and understanding. Employees develop skills of expression and communi- cation which spill over into their personal lives. They learn new ways of collaboration and planning which they apply in their families and community organisations to which they belong.” The discussion on conceptualizing and understanding work-related competences has underlined the importance of gaining a better understanding of how knowledge and competences are used and developed as people move between different contexts and set- tings, including both workplace and other informal/formal settings. While the metaphor of “transfer” has been dominant in recent times (Burke & Hutchins, 2007), the current debate has extensively problematized this notion, which often pays insufficient attention to the processes involved in recontextualizing skills and knowledge in order to put them to work in new and changing contexts (see Hager & Hodkinson, 2009; Evans & Guile, 2012). In this context, the role played by tacit skills as well as interdependences and inter- play between tacit and explicit dimensions at work have been identified as factors affecting
