# Training

work-based learning have become more prominent in recent years (Kolb, 1984; Beckett & Hager, 2002; Fuller & Unwin, 2004) . Learning and acquiring skills through a range of experiences including learners’ own life experiences facilitate links and mutual interac- tion between learning, work, and leisure. Previous research (Kersh, Evans, & Kontiainen, 2011) has indicated that the concept of the learning space can be considered from various angles and perspectives. Firstly, the learning space can be perceived as a physical space where learning is taking place such as a classroom or any other form of teaching space. O’Toole (2001) notes that the physical surroundings are often overlooked in discussions of learning in the workplace. However, as Peponis argues, it is important to acknowledge that workplace design and layout provide an intelligible framework, and the structure of space supports an organizational culture with cognitive functions (Peponis et al., 2007). Secondly, the learning space can refer to a space where learning occurs unintentionally, such as informal learning, for example, at work where employees learn from each other’s experiences (Garrick, 1997; Coffield, 2000; Cross, 2006; McGivney, 2006). Thirdly, the recent expansion of digital technologies has resulted in the development and growth of virtual learning spaces that ultimately change the boundaries of learning spaces, making them more flexible and mobile (Felstead & Jewson, 2012). Finally, the learning space can be perceived as a combination or overlap of a range of components, such as physical space, learning contexts and environments, formal/informal learning, and virtual learning. Recent trends in economic, political, and educational developments have resulted in some- what blurred boundaries between the spaces in which learning, work, and leisure occur.

Workplace spaces are characterized by being both work and learning spaces where the boundaries between the two are considerably blurred (Solomon, Boud, & Rooney, 2006, p. 6). Situated learning theory further enriches the concept of the learning space by reminding us that learning spaces extend beyond the teacher and the classroom (Kolb & Kolb, 2005). Solomon, Boud, and Rooney (2006) further draw on the term “work- place learning,” arguing that this notion has particular meanings and practices because of its location and because that location is not an educational institution. Drawing on the work of Bronfenbrenner (1977, 1979), Kolb and Kolb (2005) refer to four types of learning space. The learner’s immediate setting, such as a course or classroom, is defined as the microsystem. In this research we also extend the concept of the microsystem to the learner’s immediate workplace setting since we consider workplaces as learning sites. Other concurrent settings in a person’s life such as other courses or family are called the mesosystem. The exosystem refers to the formal and informal social structures that influence the learner’s immediate environment, for example, institutional policies and procedures and culture. Finally, the macrosystem relates to the overarching institutional patterns and values of the wider culture, such as cultural values favoring abstract knowledge over practical knowledge, which influence actors in the person’s immediate microsystem and mesosystem.

The significance of the mesosystem, the learners’ parallel lives and experience, has been emphasized by our empirical data (Kersh, Evans, & Kontiainen, 2011). One configuration of the mesosystem has been associated with the development of modern technologies that allows learners to extend their learning spaces to a variety of environments, including home and workplace settings. The expansion of digital technologies provides learners with oppor- tunities to access and undertake learning activities in a range of other settings, including home and workplace environments, public libraries and youth centers, and even on trains and buses. Felstead and Jewson (2012) observe that the recent developments in information technology have weakened the spatial fix, with workers becoming increasingly detached from personal cubes of space. The use of devices such as computers, laptops, mobile phones, and netbooks has contributed to the development of the virtual learning space where learning