---
source_path: the_challenge_of_cultural_competence_in_the_workplace_perspectives_of_healthcare.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 426510a177afcaa6ff44ca7f436e2f71eb3cca6c
title: the_challenge_of_cultural_competence_in_the_workplace_perspectives_of_healthcare
---
## Shepherd et al. BMC Health Services Research (2019) 19:135

recognize the limitations of their own knowledge when working with different cultures as per the cultural humil- ity model. However, there is also a possible incongruity between the assumption that one is commonly addressing cultural needs and the frequent experiencing of challenges when working with minority patients, which may signal an over-confidence and/or unawareness. This is often referred to in the cultural safety literature as a failure to interrogate one’s own cultural beliefs, and how a vocation may have built-in entrenched dominant culture norms and standards that impact cross-cultural clinical encoun- ters [43]. It was unknown as to how participants discerned that their cultural background had made their patients un- comfortable. They may have been acutely aware of how the dominant culture is viewed through the lens of histor- ically oppressed minority patients. Alternatively, they may have received negative feedback or complaints from pa- tients because of their actions.

In a similar pattern to the above findings, just over half of the sample (57%) had received some form of cross-cul- tural training as part of their overall health care education, yet almost 80% were satisfied with their level cultural knowledge. The cross-cultural training undertaken, was largely described as learning about the norms and customs of other cultural groups (either online or through presen- tations) which is reminiscent of the cultural awareness model. Alternative cross-cultural models (cultural humil- ity, cultural safety) critique the cultural awareness approach for homogenizing cultural groups, and effect- ively ‘trading in stereotypes’ [12, 44]. A possible discrep- ancy between real and perceived cross-cultural knowledge is conceivable here.

Participants were asked to outline what areas of cross-cultural care they believed that their organization) perform well. Answers here, would perhaps illuminate the apparent confidence many participants pos- sessed when working cross-culturally despite a significant minority not having undertaken formal cross-cultural train- ing. The availability of interpreters was the most common example of effective cross-cultural care as denoted by par- ticipants. A lack of interpreter services has been identified as a common obstacle for cross-cultural service delivery in prior studies [27, 29, 30, 34]. There was also a belief from numerous participants, that their respective organizations were culturally respectful and attentive to the cultural needs of clients. Several participants stated that their orga- nizations offer cultural training (some on a regular basis), employ multi-cultural staff, and provide educational resources for staff and patients. Staff diversity was empha- sized as beneficial for multi-cultural patients. Perhaps this was in regard to their capacity to speak languages other than English – over 90% of participants indicated that they work alongside bi-lingual staff. It is possible from the above testimony that many participants work
