---
source_path: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: db4635cc4513e5668e869bd8d8caa69b527edc05
title: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo
---
# Conclusion

The consideration of workplace learning and its different configurations has underpinned the complexities between work, learning, agency, and space. The interdependencies between individual engagement, competence development, and organizational context have been considered through the lens of organizational, individual, and environmental aspects. The complexities of workplace learning have been reflected in the changing requirements for competence development and its interplay with the changing nature of the learning space at work. The interrelations between the individual and environmental scales have been illustrated by the way individuals operate in their workplace environments, and the extent to the which these environments may facilitate or undermine their learning opportunities and life chances. The notion of expansive-restrictive environments (Fuller & Unwin, 2003, 2011) relates to the affordances of the workplace, which is strongly under- pinned by the organizational perspective. Organizational and sectoral conditions influence both workplace opportunities and employees’ perceptions at work. Making a workplace a learning organization has been considered as one of the challenges of contemporary work- place developments. Support for the continuous competence development of employees has been referred to as one of the factors that facilitates the learning workplace. Work- related competences are now increasingly considered in a broader sense, rather than com- petences that focus exclusively on performing narrowly defined workplace-related tasks. Individuals are now expected to use a range of competences, including personal skills, and be able to use these as they move between changing contexts, both within and outside their workplaces. The development of work-related competences is strongly influenced by the complexities of learning spaces, including the virtual learning space. As digital technologies have developed, workplace learning has further emphasized the significance of the digital skills of the workforce. The exercise of human agency through the virtual environment has the potential to facilitate learning at work, relating it to other spaces and
