data/clean/the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo__chunk0029.md, before:

# Training and Workplace Learning

& Evans, 2012). In some cases learners felt that their IT skills really “make a difference” – in other words they enabled them to perform their jobs better. In addition, being computer literate enabled them to expand their learning environments by engaging in many types of “virtual learning” (e.g., through the internet), either tacitly or explicitly. E-learning and modern technologies provide opportunities to facilitate and support teaching practices in the workplace context, in particular by providing flexibility of time and place of delivery, allowing the sharing and re-use of resources, enabling collaborative working, and fostering learning and competence development.

The expansion of new technologies and the development of digital skills of the contem- porary workforce have an impact on the concept of the learning space. A range of skills and knowledge can be acquired in so-called virtual settings (e.g., via electronic resources). The notion of the virtual learning space further loosens the boundaries between different types of environment. However, as Kersh et al.’s research concluded (Kersh, Waite, & Evans, 2012), in order to be meaningful, e-learning processes need to be grounded in various workplace activities. Wang et al. (2010) further note that the development of work- place e-learning should consider the alignment of individual and organizational learning needs, the connection between learning and work performance, and communication among individuals. As e-learning becomes embedded in adult learning in workplace settings, it may further contribute to facilitating the development of expansive learning environments for adult learners in both workplace and college contexts. E-learning or modern technologies may provide opportunities to facilitate and support teaching practices in the workplace context, in particular by providing flexibility of time and place of delivery; allowing the sharing and re-use of resources; enabling collaborative working; and fostering learning.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo__chunk0029.md, after:

---
source_path: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4d9bceac8a9704655e3bca61e0fd0e337212e2dd
title: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo
---
# Training

2012; Ferrari, 2012). In its communication E-Skills for the 21st Century: Fostering Competitiveness, Growth and Jobs, the European Commission underlined the significance of information and communication technology (ICT) skills for business development and growth and called for a greater exploitation of the potential of ICT in this context. Preliminary research (e.g., Kersh, Waite, & Evans, 2012; Kersh & Evans, 2010) has indi- cated that digital literacy is considered to be one of the most critical factors that help to improve business development and growth across all sectors and to create employment opportunities, in all partners countries (ECDL, 2012; JISC, 2012; Ferrari, 2012). The term “digital literacy” has been widely used in the context of the debate on employment and labor market opportunities, and this notion is often used in a broad sense.

The notion of digital skills and their role in facilitating individuals’ life chances and economic productivity has received considerable attention in recent research publica- tions and policy chapters internationally. The literature review has shown that this notion has become a significant concept in the contemporary debate of what types of skills and competences people should have in the knowledge society.

In 2006 the European Union recognized digital competence to be one of the eight key competences for lifelong learning, emphasizing that digital competence involves the confident and critical use of information society technology (IST) and thus basic skills in information and communication technology (European Parliament, 2006). There is a clear demand in society for facilitating transparency and standardization of the notion of digital competences in a European context. This has been underpinned by the European Commision’s Joint Research Centre report, which mapped 15 relevant competency frame- works that are currently available across Europe (e.g., ECDL, BECTA, and UNESCO) (Ferrari, 2012). Within the US context, a policy document Building Digital Commu- nities: A Framework for Action defined digital literacy as one of seven foundational prin- ciples that make up “the basic requirements for creating a digitally inclusive community” (Digital Literacy Task Force, 2013). What unites these definitions employed in different report and policy chapters is that they (in one way or another) have referred to the need to address the capability to make use of digital skills in meaningful ways for life, work, and learning. These definitions may overlap in a number of ways; however, all of them include elements that need to be considered in discussing the problem of digital competence. This suggests that we could consider the term “digital skills/competences” as an “evolving concept” that requires further research and conceptualization, specifically in the contexts of the current demands of the contemporary workplace.

The nature of skills for employment is changing as computer literacy and skills related to the use of technologies are becoming of utmost importance in the context of the modern workplace setting. In order to succeed in the labor market both young and mature employees job seekers need to be computer literate. The expansion of new technologies means that employees are increasingly expected to have good information technology skills. Williams’ research makes a point that the emergence of communica- tions technologies and their corresponding access to computer networks are associated with the term “knowledge management” at work (Williams, 2011). There is a growing tendency for “online paperwork.” In many organizations it is expected that employees are able to complete or work with various forms (e.g., reports, orders, invoices) online. The need to undertake such tasks may create stress and pressure for some staff in a range of workplaces. The data have indicated that employees who have no or limited IT skills experience difficulties in succeeding in the labor market and feel threatened and demo- tivated within their workplaces (Kersh & Evans, 2010; Kersh, Waite, & Evans, 2012). What motivates the employees is the fact that their newly acquired information technology (IT) skills might be applied immediately within their workplace settings (Kersh, Waite,
