# Competence Development and the Workplace

Over the past decade one of the main concerns of governments has been to raise the skills level of the population as a way of increasing competitiveness in the global economy (Guile, 2011). The new debate has highlighted the need to understand better the part played by development of competences in promoting “knowledge-based” economies and societies. Competence is indisputably a complex concept and can be interpreted in a variety of ways (Issit, 1995; Hodkinson, 1995; Eraut, 1994). As Gonczi (1999) notes, the mean- ings given to competence in everyday life, in vocational education and training settings and in academic settings are quite different. What is more, the meaning is likely to change over time within each of these contexts.

“Workplace competence” is a term that has not been clearly defined and explained, and the terms “competence” and “competency,” which are often used interchangeably, are attributed multiple meanings depending on the context and the perspective advo- cated (Garavan & McGuire, 2001). As similarly noted in one of the CEDEFOP (The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training) publications, the use of this term is shown to be particularly ambiguous and applicable to various situations with different meanings, specifically, as different countries or regions have their own definition of competence and each sector or occupational family has its own interpretation (Winter- ton, Delamare-Le Deist, & Stringfellow, 2006; Mulder, 2007). Eraut and Hirsh (2007) acknowledge that the term “competency” has been most commonly used either in a direct performance-related sense (as an element of vocational competence) or simply to describe any piece of knowledge or skill that might be construed as relevant. The former relates to the prevalent conception of “skills” that links it to tasks where performance of that task is subject to subsequent measurement of the intended consequences, or “outcomes,” of learning (Oates, 2004; Hyland, 1994; Jessup, 1991). The learning outcomes approach has been adopted as a way to recognize knowledge, skills, and competences across the labor market Europe-wide (Gough, 2013). Eraut’s and Hirsh’s own definition of the term “competence” emphasizes the significance of links between the individual’s capabilities and their competences: competence is “being able to perform the tasks and roles required to the expected standard” (Eraut & Hirsh, 2007, p. 7). In their interpretation, the word “competent,” unlike terms such as “knowledge,” “learning,” and “capability,” entails a social judgment, which may vary across contexts and over time and also, sometimes, with the experience, responsibility and reputation of the person concerned. Illeris (2009, 2011) similarly observes that the term “competence” is now perceived as a modern expression for what a person is actually able to do or achieve, and further concludes that, in recent years, the concept of competence has taken a central position, and more or less displaced the concept of qualifications. As a result, the workplace and a range of other work- related learning spaces are seen as primary sites for the acquisition and development of work- related competences (e.g., Ellström, 2001; Eraut, 2000; Evans et al., 2006; Illeris, 2011;