---
source_path: the_perceived_effects_of_coaching_on_employee_performance_at_the_co_operative_ba.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ae47277380855e63a518d5827654fbf39f31ced7
title: the_perceived_effects_of_coaching_on_employee_performance_at_the_co_operative_ba
---
# ABSTRACT

The classroom can deliver the knowledge and theory, but the learning takes place through supported problem solving, action planning, application and review that are inherent in coaching. The coach provides the guided conversation, support and challenge needed to enable the coachee to find solutions, change and improve in an individualistic way that works for them. Coaching can have a positive impact on the performance and development of employees and can impart significant competitive advantage to an organization as a whole. This study sought to establish the perceived effect of the coaching on the employee performance at Cooperative Bank of Kenya. The study indeed found out that the employee performance at the bank as measured through the quarterly performance reviews has improved since coaching was commenced. Indeed this is reflected in the overall bank performance as measured by the key performance indicators, has improved over the last four years. The research was conducted during a period of intense organizational change at the Co- operative bank and provides a unique perspective on the value of encouraging coaching behavior by managers to stimulate sustainable organizational performance and improvement. The research provides an insight as to whether managers at the Co-operative bank of Kenya value the effectiveness of a coaching style and what they consider to be the benefits to such a management approach. The study used both primary and secondary data. Primary data was collected from line managers and employees who report to the line managers by way of a questionnaire. This was the most appropriate method of collecting data as it involved the key people involved in coaching and managing employee performance. The study provided an understanding to managers and coaches and supports the view that managers and coaches are receptive to the benefits of a coaching style of management which has the potential to transform workplace dynamics and productivity. Coaching requires a behavioral approach which is relevant to all managers who should recognize this as an integral activity to managing their employees. The effectiveness of coaching is evaluated by the positive changes in behavior in its participants. The implementation of coaching has not been smooth. It has faced challenges thus making it difficult for all the staff to embrace coaching practice. Some of the challenges include inadequate coaching skills, increased workload among the employees and employees not fully embracing coaching. However, the bank has made efforts to mitigate these challenges. The researcher recommends further studies to be done to find out how coaching can be used to enhance employee motivation and career growth. Further studies also need to be done to establish the best coaching practices, how to measure coaching outcomes. The study exposed a gap in evaluating the coaching program.

(cid:105)(cid:120)(cid:32)

(cid:32)
