## Shepherd et al. BMC Health Services Research (2019) 19:135

culturally competent and as such, did not offer any rec- ommendations to improve cross-cultural care. Cultural competence is often described by its proponents as an evolving process rather than a ‘clear-cut’ actuality [45]. There is some evidence however from the same mid-west- ern region that multi-cultural patients are generally satis- fied with their treatment from health care providers. Shepherd et al. [46] found that racial minorities from a mid-Western state reported that they had good access to health care services, were not afraid to visit mainstream medical services and experienced low levels of racism and poor treatment.

Implications Findings from the study should be considered in light of several limitations. First, caution is advised when general- izing results beyond Mid-Western health care settings. Second, the sample, like previous cohorts in the extant literature, was predominantly female and white/Caucasian. Prior research has suggested that female health care staff are more likely to possess patient-centered communica- tion styles [47, 48] which may be more conducive to cross-cultural care. Ohana & Mash [38] discovered that discrepancies between physicians’ perceptions of their own cultural competence and their patients’ perceptions are reduced if the physician is female. Moreover, few cul- tural minorities participated, which may reflect the demo- graphics of health care professionals in the region, and more broadly, the state population. Health professionals from cultural minority backgrounds may be more cogni- sant of the systemic and/or historical challenges faced by minority patients and may therefore be inclined to sup- port broader cross-cultural educational approaches that address explicit/implicit discrimination, power structures and historical injustices [11, 12, 49–51]. Furthermore, the exact response rate in the study was unknown – health systems were unable to disclose how many study invita- tions were distributed across their respective networks. Third, no direct patient data was collected to corroborate the cohort’s generally optimistic assertions that they and their organizations provide care that is meeting the needs of their multi-cultural clientele. Prior research has found a weak relationship between medical professionals’ percep- tions of their own cultural competence and their patient’s perceptions of their cultural competence [38]. Last, the terminology on the questionnaire (i.e., ‘diverse cultures’, ‘cultural background’ etc.) was left open to interpretation. It is possible that these broad descriptors may have influ- enced responses.

The health workers in our sample appeared to view cross-cultural education from a ‘cultural awareness’ per- spective. Effective cross-cultural care was often defined in terms of cultural knowledge (e.g., norms and customs) and facilitating communication (the use of interpreters).