---
source_path: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e9a799af9978ebea2aed6a5915b810f085157255
title: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo
---
# Training and Workplace Learning

& Evans, 2012). In some cases learners felt that their IT skills really “make a difference” – in other words they enabled them to perform their jobs better. In addition, being computer literate enabled them to expand their learning environments by engaging in many types of “virtual learning” (e.g., through the internet), either tacitly or explicitly. E-learning and modern technologies provide opportunities to facilitate and support teaching practices in the workplace context, in particular by providing flexibility of time and place of delivery, allowing the sharing and re-use of resources, enabling collaborative working, and fostering learning and competence development.

The expansion of new technologies and the development of digital skills of the contem- porary workforce have an impact on the concept of the learning space. A range of skills and knowledge can be acquired in so-called virtual settings (e.g., via electronic resources). The notion of the virtual learning space further loosens the boundaries between different types of environment. However, as Kersh et al.’s research concluded (Kersh, Waite, & Evans, 2012), in order to be meaningful, e-learning processes need to be grounded in various workplace activities. Wang et al. (2010) further note that the development of work- place e-learning should consider the alignment of individual and organizational learning needs, the connection between learning and work performance, and communication among individuals. As e-learning becomes embedded in adult learning in workplace settings, it may further contribute to facilitating the development of expansive learning environments for adult learners in both workplace and college contexts. E-learning or modern technologies may provide opportunities to facilitate and support teaching practices in the workplace context, in particular by providing flexibility of time and place of delivery; allowing the sharing and re-use of resources; enabling collaborative working; and fostering learning.
