---
source_path: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0f8b89544f1dd9765db367811111e722d9f89ec0
title: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo
---
# Training

the transferability and use of skills and competences in a range of settings and spaces. Tacit skills are generally thought of as the “hidden” dimensions of the skills and competences that people can learn from a variety of experiences, such as formal education, the work- place, family experience, informal learning. “Tacit skills” is a term that is open to wide interpretation. Definitions and terminology related to those intangible skills varies from study to study, including terms such as “informal skills,” “tacit skills,” “personal skills,” “soft skills,” and “interpersonal skills.” However, all these terms refer to hidden skills that are difficult to communicate, transmit, and acknowledge. The benefits of capturing such skills for the purpose of recognition and accreditation may be the most relevant measure of progress for a number of different kinds of learners.

The research literature on competence development through workplace learning has recognized the significance of tacit skills in the workplace. (Corno, Reinmoeller, & Nonaka, 1999; Eraut, 2000; Hager, 2000). Various approaches to conceptualizing tacit skills and competences have tended to be shaped by different epistemological stances. Tacit skills conceptualizations and explorations have been discussed within the literatures on knowledge management (e.g., Nonaka & Takeuchi, 1995; McInerney, 2002), scientific knowledge (Polanyi, 1962, 1966), and the knowledge economy (Guile, 2010a). Most of the approaches have drawn on making a distinction between tacit and explicit knowledge and attempted to provide a framework for capturing and identifying tacit knowledge with a primary purpose of making tacit knowledge explicit. Two famous attempts to capture and make tacit knowledge explicit include Nonaka and Takeuchi’s cycle of knowledge conversion and Eraut’s elicitation method. Their research draws our attention to the role of tacit skills in workplace contexts.

Nonaka and Takeuchi (1995) undertook their research in large Japanese car manu- facturing companies (such as Toyota and Honda). The primary focus of their inquiries was the issue of knowledge management and knowledge creation in large companies. Their research led them to argue that the knowledge-creation process is based on a spiral- ing of interactions between explicit and tacit knowledge and the primary purpose of this process is turning tacit knowledge about products and services into explicit knowledge. Their famous “four steps” model of knowledge conversion (Nonaka & Takeuchi, 1995) demonstrates the way tacit knowledge is converted into explicit knowledge, which ul- timately contributes to the process of knowledge creation in an organizational context. Eraut (2004) argued, however, that while Nonaka and Takeuchi demonstrated the value of tacit knowledge and the way it may become shared through the process of interac- tions at work, most of the knowledge they described was not tacit but rather personal knowledge held by employees, which was not considered relevant to be shared. Therefore their method is useful for providing an approach to share personal knowledge through social interaction at work. The sharing of knowledge through teams and networks is particularly effective for controlling corporate networks and is done through informal task forces and committees, which nurture learning and the development of sharing (Williams, 2011). Capturing tacit knowledge, according to Eraut (2004), requires a more complex approach, which would take into account both past and present experiences of individuals. Eraut’s (2000, 2004) exploration of the concept of tacit knowledge led him to call for a greater awareness of the presence of tacit knowledge in the way we do our business and live our daily lives. Drawing on a series of large-scale and small-scale research projects, he concluded that learning occurs informally during normal working processes, and that there could be considerable scope to recognize and enhance such learning if it was sensitively elicited. His “elicitation” approach to uncover tacit skills in the workplace is based on his argument that people need to be supported to bring to the surface their tacit knowledge and skills. Elicitation is achieved by facilitating articulation or identifying
