# Training and Workplace Learning

development of the knowledge economy and rapidly changing workplace environments underpin the recognition and value of both occupationally specific competences and so-called “softer” transferrable skills, which could be used across different contexts and settings. The chapter will consider the ways in which the acquisition of skills in the work- place is associated with a range of spatial dimensions, also looking at factors that relate to the development of modern technologies. The concluding part will pull together issues considered within this chapter, and will discuss the interpretations and the inter- play between the individual, organizational, and environmental dimensions of workplace learning.

The chapter will draw on these key terms that together constitute the concept of workplace learning, looking specifically at their structure, meaning, and affordances. The three scales, namely those of individual, environmental, and organizational, will provide a framework for discussion of learning at work, and will consider the role of individuals and employers within the general context of the contemporary workplace learning space.

Learning in, for, and through the Workplace

“Workplace learning” is a term open to wide-ranging interpretation. As noted by Lee et al. (2004) and Fenwick (2006) there is neither a singular definition nor a unified approach to what workplace learning is, what it should comprise, or for whom it is or should be intended. Definitions, terminology, and perceptions related to learning in the workplace vary between studies, including the use of terms such as work-related learning (Streumer & Kho, 2006), work-based learning (Avis, 2004) or learning at work (Boud & Garrick, 1999). Workplace learning as a concept has been considered through the lens of different theoretical perspectives, such as situated learning (Lave & Wenger, 1998), activity theory (Engestrom, 2001) and social ecology (Evans, Waite, & Kersh, 2011). The body of liter- ature related to issues of human resources and management draws on the concept of workplace learning specifically considering the concept through the theories of knowledge management and organizational learning at work. Cairns and Malloch (2011) suggest that there is a need for a broader conceptualization of workplace learning, arguing that work should be understood and defined as more than employment for remuneration, and the concept of workplace learning needs to be considered in the context of three terms: work, place, and learning.

In order to develop our conceptualization of workplace learning, we draw, in the first place, on Unwin and Fuller’s (2003) definition that helpfully embraces all types of learning generated from or stimulated by the needs of the workplace, including formal on-the-job training, informal learning, and work-related off-the-job education and training. Evans et al. (2006) have further drawn on this definition in their formulation of workplace learning as that learning which derives its purpose from the context of employment, that is learning in, for, and through the workplace. Such a perspective on workplace learning, as Evans et al. (2006) argue, aims to address the needs of a variety of stakeholders: employees, employers, and government. In their approach, learning in the workplace relates to differ- ent types of learning including both formal and informal learning modes, where some of the learning takes place spontaneously through social interaction, observation, and a range of work activities and experiences. Learning is perceived here as something that “you do continually whilst at work, both out of choice and by necessity” (Gray et al., 2004, p. vii). Similarly, “most of what we learn takes place at work rather than on formal courses. Work activities, the workplace, the supervisor, other workers … are the key learning resources