data/clean/the_impact_of_formal_workplace_coaching_on_employee_outcomes_a_matched_sample_an__chunk0028.md, before:

# HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL

As noted by Pousa and Mathieu (2015), most social science studies rely on non- random sampling. However, the use of PSM remains infrequent (Melguizo et al., 2011). In the work-place coaching literature, we found just one study where PSM had been used (see Hammack-Brown et al., 2024), where the authors highlight PSM as an ideal approach when an experimental design is not feasible (e.g. when researching organisa- tions in their natural state). Keiffer and Lane (2016) agree, noting in HRD research, experimental designs can be problematic due to ethical and economic concerns, and the physical environment. In our quasi-experimental design, data was sourced from panel- lists that were not randomly assigned to groups, so PSM was a logical choice.

PSM utilises observed variables (i.e. participant characteristics) to balance two or more non-random groups, mimicking random group assignment (Keiffer & Lane, 2016). The result is groups containing an equal number of cases, closely matched on the propensity scores of the observed variables (as one would expect from random group assignment). A limitation of PSM is that the sample size can be reduced during matching because cases that cannot be closely matched are discarded. Despite this, we adopted PSM to ensure that differences between the two groups in our study were due to coaching status only. Prior to score matching, we examined our initial sample (n = 601) for between-group differences on age, gender, tenure, and level of education. A series of t-tests (p ≤ .05) showed statistical differences in age, tenure, and level of education, indicating selection bias. PSM produced a matched sample (n = 412, 205 per group), ensuring statistical equivalence (p > .05) across age, gender, tenure, and level of education, effectively eliminating the selection bias.

The matched sample had an average age of 47.31 years (SD = 12.56) and was pre- dominantly female (64%). Average tenure was 9.22 years (SD = 6.66), with 48% holding a bachelor’s degree or higher. Participants worked in the private sector (60%), public sector (34%), or not-for-profit sector (6%).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/the_impact_of_formal_workplace_coaching_on_employee_outcomes_a_matched_sample_an__chunk0028.md, after:

---
source_path: the_impact_of_formal_workplace_coaching_on_employee_outcomes_a_matched_sample_an.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2e8771f4e60890a40ba4a0825b83f7a4c318ec14
title: the_impact_of_formal_workplace_coaching_on_employee_outcomes_a_matched_sample_an
---
# Propensity score matching

When comparing two groups, where one receives treatment (e.g. formal workplace coaching) and the other does not, it is ideal when both groups are equivalent on characteristics other than the treatment. This ensures any between-group difference can be attributed solely to the treatment effect (Hammack-Brown et al., 2024). To strengthen confidence that the difference between our coached and no-coach groups resulted from coaching status alone we applied propensity score matching (PSM), an advanced statistical technique that reduces the risk of selection bias in non-random samples. PSM is used in other fields including medicine and education. For example, Wang et al. (2021) used PSM to compare hospital patients with severe COVID-19 on clinical improvement rates, finding no difference between the treatment group (treated with traditional Chinese medicine and normal care) and the control group (normal care only). Similarly, Melguizo et al. (2011) applied PSM when estimating differences in higher education outcomes, showing that the treatment group (community college path students) experienced lower educational achievement compared with the control group (4-year college path students).
