---
source_path: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 35a133aba42490962513f28ebceeb759b5c17710
title: the_wiley_blackwell_handbook_of_the_psychology_of_training_development_and_perfo
---
# Training and Workplace Learning

(illuminating) instances of the nature of the tacit knowledge that is being considered (Eraut, 2000, p. 119). His approach involved structured elicitation interviewing tech- niques that supported people into reflecting on their past and present experiences and skills acquired and/or employed within these experiences. Evans and colleagues (Evans, Kersh, & Sakamoto, 2004; Evans et al., 2006) have taken this approach further, specifi- cally demonstrating the way that recognition of employees’ tacit skills and personal com- petences may enhance their motivation and further facilitate their learning attitudes and willingness to take on various workplace learning opportunities. Drawing on the method suggested by Eraut, as a first step that could be used for making tacit skills visible, Evans, Kersh, and Kontiainen’s (2004) research suggested an approach that aimed to bring a new dimension to the elicitation process, which would facilitate the recognition of tacit skills through self-reflection and self-awareness. Their research, assisted by the Dynamic Con- cept Analysis (DCA) modeling method (Kontiainen, 2002) underpins the notion of tacit skills’ recognition and self-evaluation, specifically in a range of workplace contexts: such skills have strong tacit dimensions that may become explicit or visible to the holder when deployed or recognized in a relevant context or environment. The elicitation becomes a multifaceted process that involves the learners reflecting on their tacit skills and abilities and relating those to their outcomes, achievements, and learning success. Their approach involved uncovering tacit skills through the DCA graphical modeling, which enables the process of employees’ self-evaluation of their tacit skills in a variety of contexts and settings. In particular, research by Evans, Kersh, and Kontiainen (2004) has demonstrated the ways in which adult learners draw on their past experiences and skills acquired in the course of such experiences in their new settings, contexts, and learning spaces. Their research under- lines the ways in which tacit skills could be recontextualized and made relevant in a range of activities and/or contexts. The DCA method could be used and applied to uncover, evaluate, and assess adult learners’ personal/tacit skills and competences.
