data/clean/the_perceived_effects_of_coaching_on_employee_performance_at_the_co_operative_ba__chunk0048.md, before:

## 1.1.4.(cid:32)The Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd

The Co-operative Bank of Kenya (Co-op Bank) is one of Kenya’s fastest growing

banks. It is currently one of the five largest financial institutions in the country. The

bank has been in business for over four decades. After recovering from substantial

losses in 2000, Co-op Bank saw an impressive turnaround and has been on the

upswing ever since. Initially the bank was registered under the Co-operative

Societies Act in 1965, Co-op Bank did not actually see its first year of business until

- 1968. In 2008, Co-op Bank resolved to incorporate under the Companies Act. This

qualified the bank for listing on the Nairobi Stock Exchange, which occurred in

December of 2008. Since then, the bank has seen incredible growth. The number of

accountholders and branches skyrocketed. The bank’s rapid and steady growth

prompted its inclusion in the Nairobi Stock Exchange 20-Share Index in 2009. In

both 2010 and 2011, the bank received recognition in the Financial Times of

London magazine as Best Bank in Kenya. In 2011, the bank also received the Best

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/the_perceived_effects_of_coaching_on_employee_performance_at_the_co_operative_ba__chunk0048.md, after:

---
source_path: the_perceived_effects_of_coaching_on_employee_performance_at_the_co_operative_ba.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0e5420bc8bb4eb7cedcfc94af9dd3e33be0e5a4f
title: the_perceived_effects_of_coaching_on_employee_performance_at_the_co_operative_ba
---
## motivation, development and optimal utilization of human resources towards the

achievement of a client focused and results oriented policy framework. Employee

performance management helps individuals and teams achieve their specific

objectives in order to succeed in organizational roles, develop their skills.

Training encourages good performance, strengthens job related skills and

competencies and helps employees to keep up with change in the work place.

Evaluating employees development needs has increased the capacity of employees

to perform through multiple intervention process that includes training, coaching,

mentoring, counselling, guiding, giving assignments that introduces new skills or

higher levels of responsibility and improving work processes (Obwaya, 2010).

(cid:53)(cid:32)

(cid:32)
