## Learning Spaces at Work: From Work and Training to Learning?

The interplay between training and learning at work has received recognition as one of the central tenets of the debate on contemporary workplace skills and competence development. The traditional model of work-based learning was the “one-off, pre-service education and training model” (Hodkinson & Bloomer, 2002). Thus, the traditional view of work-based learning was that it mainly consisted of qualifications or training (such as the apprenticeship model) gained prior to employment or progression in employment. This model is being challenged by the interest in “workforce development” and the changes in the perceptions of the learning spaces at work. The perception of the workplace as a site only for work and organization-specific training is gradually changing, as workplaces are now being acknowledged as sites for learning in various configurations, contributing to lifelong learning, personal development, and social engagement of indi- viduals (Field, Gallacher, & Ingram, 2009; Fuller et al., 2007; Heiskanen & Heiskanen, 2011; Guile, 2010b) as well as the exercise of wider social responsibility in and through learning (Evans, 2009). What employees learn as “learners in the workplace” and in experiences beyond the workplace (Livingstone, 2006) leads to the development of new forms of knowledge and competence, for example, job-specific, occupational, or personal. Evans et al. (2006) distinguish between workplace training and learning by making a point that training implies an intervention that is formally structured and involves a transfer of a body of knowledge, while workplace learning is more encompassing and involves locating learning in social relations at work (Evans et al., 2006). Workplace learning could be further facilitated within a learning organization. Remedios and Boreham (2004) note that a necessary feature for an organization to label itself a learning one is that mechanisms are put in place to optimize the transfer of knowledge between all levels of employees thus creating an environment where employees recognize that their ideas will be acknowledged, discussed and can influence subsequent working procedures.

Different types of learning modes are playing an increasingly prominent role in facili- tating employee learning in the workplace, as the search, often policy-driven, for ways of involving adults in continuing learning has emphasized that learning may occur in set- tings other than the classroom, in a range of formal and informal environments, including workplace sites, virtual learning, home or leisure settings (Evans, Kersh, & Kontiainen, 2004). Different modes of learning embedded in experiential, community-based, and