---
source_path: the_impact_of_formal_workplace_coaching_on_employee_outcomes_a_matched_sample_an.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 232c65112612c6e306f2bf5fea6323592d268fc7
title: the_impact_of_formal_workplace_coaching_on_employee_outcomes_a_matched_sample_an
---
# Discussion

Results indicate that formally coached participants exhibited stronger positive attitudes and behaviours (i.e. meaningful work and OCBs) compared to those without formal coaching. This supports our position that formal workplace coaching is a more effective approach for strengthening workplace attitudes and behaviours compared with informal coaching and no coaching. Our findings align with prior research. Using SET, S. Kim and Kuo (2015) found a positive relationship between workplace coaching, OCBs, and in-role performance. Similarly, using LMX, Tanskanen et al. (2019) reported that workplace coaching enhances individual and team level performance, particularly when leader- member exchange relationships are strong.

Regarding negative work-related outcomes (i.e. turnover intentions and CWBs), we hypothesised that formally coached participants would exhibit weaker negative attitudes and behaviours than those without formal coaching. While the latent means for turnover intentions and CWBs were both comparatively weaker (as expected), the between-group difference was not statistically significant, challenging our assumption. This result mis- aligns with past findings. Ali et al. (2018) reported a negative relationship between workplace coaching and turnover intentions, and Raza and Ahmed (2020) did the same for employee deviance. However, turnover intentions are shaped by various factors, including counterproductive work behaviours (see Carpenter & Berry, 2017), and job dissatisfaction, career stagnation, and economic conditions (Hom et al., 2017; Stone, 2017). Additionally, in developing a scale for turnover intentions, Dwivedi (2015) notes that employees leave for diverse, non-standard reasons. Similarly, CWBs may be influ- enced by thrill seeking tendencies (Bennett & Robinson, 2000), or personality factors like narcissism (Grijalva & Newman, 2015) that counterbalance the felt obligation generated by formal coaching (Haar & Spell, 2004). Moreover, OCBs are more visible to super- visors, while CWBs are harder to detect, possibly making employees less inclined to reduce them. We further acknowledge that the non-significant result may be due to participant non-self-disclosure of turnover intentions and CWBs. However, our approach was consistent with the literature, and participants were anonymous, so there was no advantage to be untruthful. Ultimately, our findings suggest the felt obligation created by formal coaching was too weak to overcome the complex drivers of turnover intentions and CWBs, leading to important theoretical implications, which we explore next.
