# J. W. MOWAT ET AL.

other. This study focuses on managerial coaching (hereafter referred to as work- place coaching), exploring the difference in work-related outcomes between two groups, where one received formal coaching from their supervisor and the other did not.

The literature strongly supports workplace coaching (Al Nahyan et al., 2024; Ellinger et al., 2003; Park et al., 2021; Schermuly et al., 2022). Some describe it as a ‘powerful approach to leadership’, noting that roughly three-quarters of UK-based managers are expected to coach their direct reports (McCarthy & Milner, 2020, p. 249). Matsuo (2018) highlights workplace coaching as an integral skill for supervisors, and Hagen and Peterson (2014) similarly note its potential to improve performance across multiple levels. There are a number of important work-related attitudes and behaviours linked with workplace coaching, including higher job satisfaction and performance (Ellinger et al., 2003), as well as stronger organisational commitment (S. Kim et al., 2013), and reduced turnover intentions (Ali et al., 2018).

Despite general support for workplace coaching, a body of literature also highlights the complexities and challenges. Milner et al. (2023) note that it is demanding work, and sessions can stray off-course, moving into non-coaching areas such as psychological counselling and self-disclosed misconduct, areas a supervisor-coach may be ill-equipped to manage. Others draw attention to the complexities and dilemmas of workplaces, including interpersonal relations and the power distance between employees and super- visors (Spaten & Flensborg, 2013). Additionally, poorly executed workplace coaching may do harm (Weer et al., 2016). For example, Dahling et al. (2016) found that low- skilled coaching delivered frequently may hinder employee performance.

A major complexity is how workplace coaching is implemented. Echeverri (2020) describes a unique approach in the Netherlands, where company-appointed coaches disguised as tram passengers observe drivers before initiating formal one-on-one coach- ing conversations. More broadly, Grant (2017) differentiates between kinds of coaching conversations from the short and informal (one to five minutes in duration) to the long and formal (up to one hour or more), ranging from ‘corridor conversations’ (p. 45) to formal coaching sessions. Similarly, Dixey (2015) distinguishes day-to-day conversations from less frequent formal coaching sessions. This study focuses on the distinction between formal coaching and alternative approaches, arguing that formal coaching offers the greatest potential to improve employee workplace attitudes and behaviours.

Building on the work of Gregory and Levy (2010); and Raza and Ahmed (2020), we define a formal coaching event as a structured one-on-one meeting between a supervisor and employee to discuss and improve performance on the job. Formal coaching events typically last up to an hour or more (Grant, 2017), making them distinct and memorable. For this reason, they can be recalled with reasonable accurately. In contrast, informal coaching events are typically shorter and less structured (Grant, 2017), making them routine and harder to distinguish from general supervision. As noted by Dixey (2015), some supervisors embed coaching into everyday conversations, meaning employees may not always realise they are being coached. Accordingly, our participants were categorised into ‘coached’ or ‘no-coach’ groups based on their formal coaching experience over the past six months. Those who participated in at least one formal coaching event were assigned to the coached group, whilst those who did not participate in any formal coaching events were assigned to the no-coach group.