---
source_path: title.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9d61de0aa11534758244500ea14ddf0f038af28e
title: title
---
## Antonio M. Esp´ın1*, Francisco Reyes-Pereira2, Luis F. Ciria3

Abstract Public and private organizations are increasingly applying behavioral economics methods to a variety of issues such as mechanism design and incentive architecture. However, there has been little focus on how experimental tools used in behavioral economics can help companies learn more about their (current or prospective) workforce and, more speciﬁcally, about their employees’ tastes and inclinations. This has important implications for broader organizational performance since some designs/incentives are likely to affect only individuals with a particular disposition (e.g. risk averse or fairness oriented) but not others, or can even have opposite effects on individuals with different sets of preferences. In this commentary, we point out a number of promising avenues for the application of a behavioral economics lens to understand and manage people within organizations. A comprehensive case study is also provided.

Keywords preferences — behavior — motivation — human resources — personnel economics — teamwork

1Department of Economics, Middlesex University Business School, London, United Kingdom 2Scientiﬁc & Operative Department, Behave4, Granada, Spain 3Brain, Mind & Behavior Research Center, University of Granada, Spain *Corresponding author: A.Espin@mdx.ac.uk

Introduction Behavioral economics refers to the integration of psychologi- cal and social insights into economic analysis. This informal (and deliberately rough) deﬁnition underscores the potential of such an approach for the understanding of organizational performance. Given that organizations are basically groups of interdependent people, it follows that people’s psychology and social concerns are key elements in the functioning of organizations.

In the last years, both public and private companies have shown an increasing interest in the application of behavioral insights to several areas of the business, such as the design of choice and incentive architecture (e.g. Thaler and Benartzi (2004), Thaler and Sunstein (2008), Goldstein et al. (2008), Ariely (2009)); the results appear to be promising1. Many be- havioral economics prescriptions for organizations (as well as for public policy) are based on previous scientiﬁc knowledge regarding the limits of human greed, willpower and rational calculation (Camerer and Malmendier 2007), which entails, for instance, that the way in which options are presented may inﬂuence choices and that revealed preferences often do not coincide with normative preferences (e.g. Thaler and Sun- stein (2008), Ariely (2009), Kooreman and Prast (2010), Frey (2017), Sunstein (2017)).

These organizational applications are typically carried out under the assumption of homogeneous agents. To put it differently, behavioral applications are generally thought for an “average”, representative individual. For instance, since behavioral research shows that people display inconsistent (i.e. present biased) intertemporal preferences, allowing em- ployees to base their pension schemes on pre-commitment devices can increase savings (Thaler and Benartzi 2004) and, as a consequence, long-term organizational efﬁciency (Lazear 1979). Also, since people have prosocial preferences, piece- rate incentives may lead to higher productivity than relative- performance incentives because the latter impose negative externalities on peers (Bandiera, Barankay, and Rasul 2005). However, not all individuals display present bias or social concerns, at least, not to the same extent or in the same way. Indeed, one key lesson from behavioral experiments is that people are highly heterogeneous (e.g. Holt and Laury (2002), Corgnet et al., (2015), Charness and Rabin (2002), Frederick et al. (2002), Fischbacher et al. (2001)). This means that, as happens with more “traditional” personnel economics pre- scriptions (Lazear and Shaw 2007), some behavioral solutions are likely to have a positive effect on the performance of em- ployees with a particular thinking style or set of preferences but can be innocuous or even overtly harmful for individuals with different dispositions.

1 Gallup research shows that “a study group of 10 companies that applied these principles outperformed peers by 85% in sales growth and more than 25% in gross margin during a recent one-year period” Fleming & Harter (2009).

More speciﬁcally, extrinsic motivations (e.g. monetary or award incentives) may either crowd-in or crowd-out the employees’ intrinsic motivations depending on their tastes

and dispositions (Gagn´e and Deci 2005, Burks, Carpenter, and Goette 2009,Frey 2017,Falk and Kosfeld 2006). Under- standing when and why certain interventions can be effective thus requires understanding the psychology of employees at the individual level. For instance, extrinsic incentives linked to team performance, which align personal and group bene- ﬁts and are thus thought to increase overall team productivity, might increase the cooperativeness of relatively self-interested individuals but, at the same time, be counterproductive for intrinsically cooperative employees who cooperate with their peers without any need of external enforcement. This means that this type of incentives should probably not be used in groups of (previously identiﬁed) cooperative individuals. In the section “Practical applications of basic insights”, we pro- vide a number of similar examples.

The next two sections are devoted to general ideas about the application of experimental techniques used in behav- ioral economics to measure characteristics of the workforce. In the last two sections, respectively, we provide practical (hypothetical) examples of possible solutions to basic prob- lems and a comprehensive case study showing how behavioral economics measures can contribute to understand issues in different areas of the business. For the case study, we offer a brief summary of the assessment procedures proposed in the project. However, we are not allowed to show the speciﬁc results and recommendations. In addition, the text has been anonymized to preserve the identity of all parties involved. We chose this case study because it touches off a considerable number of topics for the application of behavioral economics measures to human resource (HR) management.

Predicting performance, what is being done? The measurement of employees’ attitudes in a systematic and theory-based manner is fundamental to be able to predict their job performance. This is not new for companies’ managers, especially in the domain of HR management, where assess- ments of people are ubiquitous. Many HR departments have now methods to measure the cognitive abilities (e.g. ﬂuid, numerical or verbal intelligence) of their companies’ workers (Schmidt and Hunter 2004). More recently, employees’ non- cognitive attributes (often referred to as “soft skills”), such as “Big-Five” personality traits, are also being increasingly assessed, especially for top level jobs in large ﬁrms (Sackett and Walmsley 2014). Not in vain, cognitive skills and per- sonality traits have been extensively validated as predictors of job performance (Sackett and Walmsley 2014,Schmidt and Hunter 2004).

The most common practice in ﬁrms using this type of assessments is to gather key performance indicators (KPIs) of their workers and see how the assessed individual variables correlate with those KPIs. This serves to place, or hire, the “correct” persons (i.e. those displaying the characteristics that better predict performance) in the correct positions. Other common practices are to hire only people that “ﬁt” the com-
