## Organizations should know their people: A behavioral economics approach — 44/48

Villaverde 2015, Curry, Price, and Price 2008, Al-Ubaydli, Jones, and Weel 2013). The distribution of types (roughly speaking, patient vs. impatient individuals) within depart- ments may, therefore, be a key element of within- and between- department cooperation (Esp´ın, Correa, and Ruiz-Villaverde 2015). Most likely, between-department conﬂict imposes long-term costs on the employees involved. Thus their in- tertemporal preferences may partially explain their conﬂict behavior5. We refer to the section “Measurement and its ro- bustness” for an example of decision in typical intertemporal choice tasks.

To elicit the social networks of employees in Firm A, the proposed assessment included four standard questions (see Bra˜nas-Garza et al. (2017) for a review of methods). In par- ticular, the employees would be asked to select, from a drop- down list, a number of other employees with whom they (i) prefer to jointly carry out some teamwork, (ii) prefer to jointly participate in a leisure/socialization activity organized by the company, (iii) prefer not to jointly carry out some teamwork, (iv) prefer not to jointly participate in a leisure/socialization activity organized by the company. The names in the list correspond to all other participants (both from one’s own and other departments). The ﬁrst two questions are intended to elicit positive relationships, whereas the last two questions assess negative relationships. Positive and negative relation- ships in social networks have been found to be key predictors of between-department conﬂicts within companies (Labianca, Brass, and Gray 1998,Nelson 1989,Sparrowe, Liden, Wayne, and Kraimer 2001). It is important to note that monetary in- centives for network elicitation (Branas-Garza, Jim´enez, and Ponti 2017) are not necessary in this case because employees face other type of extrinsic incentives to reveal their truly preferred partners (e.g. giving incorrect names could result in having to work or to go out for dinner with disliked partners)6. With these data, measures of centrality of individuals and other aggregate measures can be obtained. In particular, betweenness, in-degree and closeness centrality individual measures are key variables here since, among other things, they can help infer who might serve as a (positive) link be- tween departments and who is likely to be a bottleneck. One potential application of these measures is to ﬁnd out the appro- priate person(s) to lead the communication between depart- ments: for example, someone with a central position in the path between departments (betweeness) can canalize all the between-department communication7. The density/cohesion

5Experimental evidence from Esp´ın et al. (2012) also suggests that in- tertemporal preferences have to do with the willingness to punish uncoop- erative group members, which is a fundamental driving force of long-term cooperation (G¨achter, Renner, and Sefton 2008)

6Yet, as noted by a reviewer, there might exist other causes that lead a worker to hide social network information (for instance, showing a preference for not working with someone could reﬂect a non-cooperative character which might be disliked by the company).

7Although we provide brief practical implications here for several individ- ual variables, we should note that individual measures are not enough to offer a deﬁnite solution to a problem such as this one and a more complete picture should be drawn from the whole assessment. For instance, if the person with

and centralization of the departmental clusters are also vari- ables of interest: are more dense or centralized departments more, or less, likely to conﬂict with other departments? The intervention recommended to improve between-department cooperation could depend on the answer to this question. For instance, if the networks of more conﬂictive departments are more (less) centralized around particular individuals, one pos- sible solution may consist of increasing (reducing) the homo- geneity of groups.

Finally, the assessment included a battery of social pref- erence games to elicit the participants’ preferences when matched with (i) other random participants, (ii) random mem- bers of his/her own department (ingroups), (iii) random mem- bers of other departments (outgroups). After reading the general instructions of each game, individuals would have to make three types of decisions, one for each different type of partner. Apart from the “general” dispositions measured through the ﬁrst matching protocol, with this methodology it is possible to explore the level of an individual’s intergroup bias by comparing his/her decisions in the three cases (Chen and Li 2009,Esp´ın, Correa, and Ruiz-Villaverde 2015). But even more critically, it also allows to infer how the differ- ent departments (as aggregate units) are perceived by people from other departments. The key question here is, which are the characteristics that deﬁne the best-perceived employees or departments? For example, are they more cooperative, more trustful, more compassionate, less ingroup biased? The answer to this question will determine the course of action.

The proposed tasks are the following: a distributional pref- erences game (Corgnet, Esp´ın, and Hern´an-Gonz´alez 2015) to explore pure outcome-based concerns; a public goods game (Fischbacher, G¨achter, and Fehr 2001) to explore coopera- tion and conditional cooperation; an stag hunt game (Skyrms 2004) to explore coordination; a trust game (Ermisch, Gam- betta, Laurie, Siedler, and Noah Uhrig 2009) to explore trust and trustworthiness; an ultimatum game (G¨uth, Schmittberger, and Schwarze 1982) to explore bargaining and fairness orien- tation; and a dictator game (Forsythe et al. 1994) to explore generosity.

As is the case here, often there are technical and logistical limitations to have participants play a game simultaneously. Thus, those games that require strategic interaction need to be played using the strategy method (Selten 1967). The strategy method entails that the participant decides for every possible contingency of the game (that is, for every possible choice of the other player). Let us illustrate this with an example. In the ultimatum game, a proposer suggests a way to split e200 with a responder. If the responder accepts the offer, the proposed split is implemented. However, if the responder rejects the offer, both players earn nothing. Here, all partici- pants would have to make decisions for both roles of the game (Exadaktylos, Esp´ın, and Bra˜nas-Garza 2013). For the role of

good relationships at both sides is also uncooperative according to another measure, s/he might not be the appropriate person to lead between-department communication.