# DIRKS AND FERRIN

the character-based perspectives operate (see Mayer & Gavin, 1999, for the single exception). A study might, for example, explore whether trust in a supervisor affects a particular outcome by means of processes associated with the character-based per- spective, the relationship-based perspective, or both.

Second, there have been few attempts to determine contextual factors (moderators) that determine when trust in leadership will have larger or smaller relationships with various outcomes (see Brockner, Siegel, Daly, Tyler, & Martin, 1997, for one example). Our analysis was unable to account for all heterogeneity in the effect sizes, suggesting the existence of additional moderating factors. As one example of a situational factor, the greater the vulnerability or uncertainty in a context, the more mindful indi- viduals may be of trust and the greater its impact on outcomes. Following this idea, research might examine whether the impact of trust on outcomes such as altruism, commitment, and intent to quit is magnified in mergers or downsizings (paradoxically, situations in which trust in leadership is often most challenged). In addition, research might examine whether one theoretical perspective may be more important than the other under different conditions. For example, believing that one’s leader has integrity may have a smaller impact on outcomes than believing one has a high-quality relationship with the leader, or vice versa, depending on the conditions. Exploring these issues may help identify areas where the two theoretical perspectives on trust diverge in their predic- tions. Doing so may also have practical significance in that it helps practitioners understand specific conditions in which it is impor- tant to focus resources on establishing trust.

stronger and more robust impact on trust than demonstrating that one has good character. Additionally, research might explore whether the two theoretical perspectives are applicable under dif- ferent situations. For example, the character-based perspective may be more appropriate in situations where, because of geograph- ical or hierarchical distances, relationship-based perspectives are less applicable because of the difficulty in developing high-quality relationships. Finally, researchers might examine other practices and behaviors that are implied by these two theoretical perspec- tives (e.g., training practices that help managers be more effective at establishing trusting relationships with followers).

Although the evidence suggests that transformational leadership has a substantial relationship with trust, the exact causal process by which the effect occurs remains unclear. One step toward address- ing this issue would be to identify the behavioral component(s) responsible for the effect. The literature provides several possibil- ities: Rich (1997) proposed that role-modeling behavior is respon- sible for the effects, research by Kirkpatrick and Locke (1996) indicated that a charismatic style may have a causal effect, and some scholars have suggested that multiple components may be relevant (Jung & Avolio, 2000; Pillai et al., 1999). Some of these component behaviors may affect trust by means of the relationship-based theory (e.g., individual consideration) and oth- ers by means of the character-based theory (e.g., role modeling). Given the difficulty of empirically separating the transformational leadership dimensions and the lack of clarity about how they operate (see Yukl, 1999, for a critique), experimental research manipulating different behavioral dimensions of transformational leadership may be appropriate.4