# DIRKS AND FERRIN

We also explore whether choosing to a focus on one particular operational definition of trust versus another may result in differ- ent findings.

Last, because scholars from different literatures have used and adapted the concept, different theoretical perspectives have arisen. We offer a tentative framework describing two distinct theoretical perspectives and use it to address the issues described above. Specifically, the framework is used to establish the theoretical linkages between trust in leadership and other constructs, and to help specify why trust in leadership might show different relation- ships with other constructs depending on the referent of leadership or the definition of trust. Although data are not yet available to conduct comprehensive tests of the theoretical framework through meta-analysis, the framework offers parsimony to the expansive literature on trust in leadership and provides theoretical leverage for addressing the above issues and for conducting future research. In sum, in this study we attempt to quantitatively review the primary relationships between trust in leadership and other con- structs, explore the implications of specifying the construct in different ways, and provide theoretical parsimony to the literature base. These issues are important to address from a theoretical standpoint because they limit the ability of scholars to draw on, and advance, existing research on trust in leadership. The issues are also relevant for practitioners, because trust in leadership is a foundation of several practices, such as leadership development programs (e.g., Peterson & Hicks, 1996).

zenship behavior (Konovsky & Pugh, 1994), in some research on the operation of transformational leadership and trust (Pillai, Schriesheim, & Williams, 1999), and in literature on leader– member exchange relationships (e.g., Schriesheim et al., 1999). Given the emphasis on relational issues, we refer to this perspec- tive as the relationship-based perspective.

A second perspective focuses on the perception of the leader’s character and how it influences a follower’s sense of vulnerability in a hierarchical relationship (e.g., Mayer, Davis, & Schoorman, 1995). According to this perspective, trust-related concerns about a leader’s character are important because the leader may have authority to make decisions that have a significant impact on a follower and the follower’s ability to achieve his or her goals (e.g., promotions, pay, work assignments, layoffs). This perspective implies that followers attempt to draw inferences about the lead- er’s characteristics such as integrity, dependability, fairness, and ability and that these inferences have consequences for work behavior and attitudes. Examples of research using this perspective include models of trust based on characteristics of the trustee (Mayer et al., 1995), research on perceptions of supervisor char- acteristics (e.g., Cunningham & MacGregor, 2000; Oldham, 1975), and research on some forms of leader behavior (Jones, James, & Bruni, 1975). We refer to this perspective as the character-based perspective. In both of the two perspectives, trust is a belief or perception held by the follower and is measured accordingly; it is not a property of the relationship or the leader per se.