# Method

Effect sizes. Most studies reported effect size data in terms of a Pearson correlation coefficient, r. Studies that reported other metrics (e.g., F, d) were converted to r by using the appropriate formulas. To preserve the independence of samples, for each relationship studied only one effect size was included from each sample. When a study reported data for multiple, independent samples, those samples were included separately in the anal- ysis (Hunter & Schmidt, 1990).

Variables. Consistent with most recent empirical research, we used only data collected with non-self-report measures of job performance (e.g., rating by supervisor, or objective measures such as sales volume) and OCBs. The use of non-self-report measures should have prevented effect size inflation due to common source variance.

For job satisfaction and transformational leadership, some studies re- ported the data as a global variable whereas others reported it as a facet variable. Consistent with other meta-analyses, (e.g., Organ & Ryan, 1995), for studies that used facet variables, we applied the appropriate formulas (Hunter & Schmidt, 1990) to compute a single effect size. For example, if a study reported the effect sizes for transformational leadership compo- nents behaviors, we used the formula (cid:2)rxy/sqrt[n (cid:3) n(n (cid:4) 1)ryy] to combine the data into a single correlation. The Spearman–Brown formula was then used to compute the reliability by using the reliability estimates of the components.