---
source_path: trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b14bbee353fabcb31f039c9c02100aed6ccd25c3
title: trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra
---
## Relationships With Hypothesized Antecedents

This study represents the first systematic review of empirical evidence for antecedents of trust. The findings suggest that lead- ership style and several management practices may be means of increasing trust in leadership: ensuring fair procedures, outcomes, and interactional processes; using PDM; providing organizational support; ensuring expectations are fulfilled; and using transforma- tional and transactional leadership styles. Length of relationship had no relationship, and propensity to trust had only a small relationship. Given this pattern of results, one might speculate that future research and practice might have greater success by focus- ing on leader behaviors and practices. One limitation of existing research on behaviors and practices, however, is that most studies focus on follower perceptions instead of actual practices or more objective measures of behavior (for an exception, see Mayer & Davis, 1999).

Along these same lines, specifying and empirically examining the processes by which individuals observe actions or other prac- tices (e.g., PDM) and subsequently make attributions would be helpful in advancing knowledge and for designing practices. For example, research might examine the behavioral cues that employ- ees use to draw conclusions about the character of leaders (character-based theory) or whether their relationship is one in- volving care and concern (relationship-based theory). The pro- cesses by which employees make attributions to a collective such as organizational leadership are particularly unclear. Hamilton and Sherman (1996), for instance, suggested that different mechanisms for processing information and making judgments may be engaged when the target is a collective as opposed to an individual (e.g., organizational leadership vs. direct leader), because the former is typically not assumed to be a unitary entity.

In examining different types of leadership actions and practices, we found that some variables had larger observed relationships than others with trust. Transformational leadership, perceived or- ganizational support, and interactional justice had the largest rela- tionships, followed by procedural justice, transactional leadership, distributive justice, PDM, and unmet expectations. Earlier we had theorized that the former three operated primarily by means of the relationship-based theory whereas the latter operated by means of both theories or the character-based theory. Future research might explore whether actions that operate by means of the relationship- based theory are the more powerful tools for establishing trust in leadership. For instance, research might explore the extent to which building a relationship based on mutual obligations has a
