# TRUST IN LEADERSHIP META-ANALYSIS

Figure 1. Framework for trust in leadership. Concepts in italics represent processes and concepts that are parts of the theoretical model but were not examined empirically because of insufficient data. A minus sign indicates a negative relationship with trust. OCBs (cid:1) organizational citizenship behaviors.

outcomes relevant to organizations. At present, however, there is variation in the opinions of scholars (see, e.g., Golembiewski & McConkie, 1975; Kramer, 1999; Williamson, 1993). A narrative review of the consequences of trust in leaders and other referents was not able to draw conclusive findings for behavioral and performance variables, although it did find some consistent evi- dence of a relationship with attitudinal variables (Dirks & Ferrin, 2001). In short, existing research has not provided a clear picture. Consequently, one of our goals in the present meta-analysis is to develop insight, based on the sum of previous empirical research, regarding the relationships between trust in leadership and key outcomes. A second goal is to examine the effects of trust across different outcome variables to better understand where trust is likely to have its largest or smallest impacts.

Behavioral and performance outcomes. The two theoretical perspectives outlined earlier describe two different mechanisms by which trust might affect behavior and performance. The character- based perspective focuses on how perceptions of the leader’s character affect a follower’s vulnerability in a hierarchical rela- tionship. Specifically, because leaders have authority to make decisions that have a significant impact on the follower (e.g., promotions, pay, work assignments, layoffs), perceptions about the trustworthiness of the leader become important. Drawing on this idea, Mayer et al. (1995) provided a model proposing that when followers believe their leaders have integrity, capability or benev- olence, they will be more comfortable engaging in behaviors that put them at risk (e.g., sharing sensitive information). For example, Mayer and Gavin (1999) suggested that when employees believe their leader cannot be trusted (e.g., because the leader is perceived not to have integrity) they will divert energy toward “covering their backs,” which detracts from their work performance. In contrast, the relationship-based perspective is based on principles of social exchange and deals with employees’ willingness to reciprocate care and consideration that a leader may express in a relationship. That is, individuals who feel that their leader has, or will, demonstrate care and consideration will reciprocate this sen-

timent in the form of desired behaviors. Konovsky and Pugh (1994) drew on this logic, suggesting that a social exchange relationship encourages individuals to spend more time on re- quired tasks and be willing to go above and beyond their job role. Both theoretical perspectives suggest that trust may result in higher performance and organizational citizenship behaviors (OCBs), but they reach this end by distinct, and potentially complementary, routes.

Attitudes and intentions. Trust is also linked to a number of attitudinal outcomes, particularly organizational commitment and job satisfaction. Rich (1997) recognized that managers are respon- sible for many duties that have a major effect on employees’ job satisfaction, such as performance evaluations, guidance and assis- tance with job responsibilities, and training. Using the logic de- scribed in the prior section regarding the leader’s character, indi- viduals are likely to feel safer and more positive about the manager making these decisions when they believe the leader is trustwor- thy. In contrast, having a low level of trust in a leader is likely to be psychologically distressing when the leader has power over important aspects of one’s job, and this distress is likely to affect one’s attitudes about the workplace. The implication of this idea is that trust in leadership should be associated with higher levels of job satisfaction, higher organizational commitment, and lower intention of quitting. For instance, when individuals do not trust their leaders, they are more likely to consider quitting, because they may be concerned about decisions that the leaders might make (owing to perceptions of lack of integrity, fairness, honesty, or competence) and not want to put themselves at risk to the leader. Last, we expect trust to affect two additional variables that are important for effective leadership: commitment to decisions made by or goals set by the leader and belief in the accuracy of infor- mation provided by the leader. Because trust involves beliefs about honesty, integrity, and the extent to which a leader will take advantage of the employee, it is likely to affect the extent to which individuals are willing to believe the accuracy of information they

613

614