data/clean/trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra__chunk0025.md, before:

# TRUST IN LEADERSHIP META-ANALYSIS

means of the relationship-based theory, and “overall” definitions operate by means of both mechanisms (albeit to a lesser degree than either “pure” form would) provides the basis for making predictions about different relationships between outcome vari- ables and alternative operationalizations of trust. We draw on our earlier theorizing for the predictions. As suggested earlier, one might argue that OCBs and job performance may be a function of social exchange (Konovsky & Pugh, 1994) and perhaps also con- cerns over vulnerability associated with character-based perspec- tive (Mayer & Gavin, 1999). In addition, the correlate LMX involves an evaluation of the relationship and is likely to involve affective elements. Consequently, we would expect these variables to have larger relationships with overall definitions of trust (in- volving the operation of both perspectives) than with cognitive trust alone. In contrast, job attitudes may be largely affected by concerns about dependability, honesty, fairness, and competence of the leader (as opposed to reciprocation of care). As discussed earlier, concerns about the leader may have a large impact on how individuals experience their workplace, as is the case for work- place attitudes such as job satisfaction.

Hypothesis 6: OCBs, job performance, and LMX will have a stronger relationship with overall trust than cognitive trust; job satisfaction, organizational commitment, and intention to quit will have a stronger relationship with cognitive trust.

Journal of Management, Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, Journal of Organizational Behavior, Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Leadership Quarterly, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, and Personnel Psychology. Fourth, we gathered unpublished research by contacting approximately 90 researchers who were considered likely to have relevant data. Unpublished studies were included to minimize publication bias (Rosenthal, 1979).

We used a number of initial criteria to determine whether a study was to be included in the meta-analyses. The study had to include data on a construct specifically termed trust that we deemed to be used in a manner consistent with Rousseau et al.’s (1998) cross-disciplinary definition (we later examine potential differences among operationalizations using the moderator analysis). We did not include studies that operationalized trust as a behavior, because other scholars have noted that the definition of trust as a behavior is problematic (see, e.g., Mayer et al., 1995; Rousseau et al., 1998). The referent of trust had to be a leader or leadership group; we did not examine individuals’ trust in peers or subordinates. Studies had to report the minimum statistics necessary for conducting the meta-analyses, such as zero-order correlation (partial correlations are not appropriate) or the equivalent, and the sample size. For cases in which such data were not reported, we attempted to contact the authors and obtain the information, where feasible. Last, the analysis was at the individual level; data at other levels of analysis were not included. To make the analysis more tractable and the estimates more stable, we conducted an analysis for only those variables for which there were at least five independent samples for the primary analysis.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra__chunk0025.md, after:

---
source_path: trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1f5a6061c0742f7a76f37400d4ee91b2aaa29e03
title: trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra
---
# Definition of Trust

Although most definitions of trust seem to have a common conceptual core (Rousseau et al., 1998), individual researchers have used different operational definitions, which has resulted in the measurement of potentially different definitions of trust. These potential differences have been recognized by scholars, suggesting that trust comprises multiple dimensions (e.g., Clark & Payne, 1997; Cook & Wall, 1980; McAllister, 1995).

2 A second distinction found in the literature is whether trust is a belief–expectation or a behavioral intention (Mayer & Davis, 1999). Al- though empirical research using the latter definition appears to be growing, our review found that almost all of the empirical research on trust in leadership to date has used the former. Consequently, trust as a belief– expectation is our focus. We did, however, include both of the definitions in our coding scheme.
