data/clean/trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra__chunk0023.md, before:

# interpersonal

It is unclear whether these distinctions provide leverage for understanding how trust is created and how it operates. On one hand, distinctions between the definitions might not be meaning- ful, because all of the definitions may tap the same construct. On the other hand, the measures may be tapping somewhat different aspects of trust, each of which has a potentially unique relationship with other constructs. To date, research has provided almost no evidence on the implications of using alternative definitions.

We suggest that alternative operational definitions of trust result in relationships of different magnitude with other variables be- theoretical processes cause they are associated with different (relationship-based or character-based theory). Specifically, the character-based perspective seems to be logically associated with cognitive definitions of trust, the relationship-based perspective is logically associated with affective definitions, and both perspec- tives are likely to be relevant to some degree for overall definitions of trust. For example, cognitive items such as “I believe manage- ment has high integrity” and “[My leader] is not always honest and truthful” (Robinson, 1996) capture perceptions about the leader’s character that would create concerns about being vulnerable to him or her. In contrast, affective items such as “I would have to say that we have both made considerable emotional investments in our working relationships” and “If I shared my problems with [my leader] I know he would respond constructively and caringly” (McAllister, 1995) are likely to be indicators of a relationship that will operate beyond the standard economic contract and that in- volves the exchange of socioemotional benefits. The implications of these differences are discussed in the following two paragraphs. In the meta-analysis, we analyze the different relationships related to overall versus cognitive trust. We focus on these two types because we found that nearly all of the studies included in the meta-analysis used one of these two; there is presently insufficient data to directly examine affective trust.

Hypothesis 5: Interactional justice, procedural justice, and PDM will have a stronger relationship with trust in direct leaders than with trust in organizational leadership. Perceived organizational support will have a stronger relationship with trust in organizational leadership.

We begin with differential relationships with outcomes. The assumption that cognitive operationalizations are primarily asso- ciated with and operate by means of the character-based theory, affective definitions are primarily associated with and operate by

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra__chunk0023.md, after:

---
source_path: trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0fef7567dab95b407f01c8d5023f55554d3bf566
title: trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra
---
# DIRKS AND FERRIN

be of concern to the individual, because this decision may involve concerns about job-related factors and organizational factors.

Hypothesis 4: Trust in direct leaders will have a stronger relationship with job satisfaction, OCB altruism, and job performance than trust in organizational leadership; trust in organizational leadership will have a stronger relationship with organizational commitment.

The relationship between trust and some antecedents may also vary based on the referent. Leadership actions are seen as reflect- ing leadership characteristics (character-based theory) or taken as signals about the nature of the relationship (relationship-based theory). At present, little research has addressed how subordinates attribute responsibility for leadership actions and decisions. For some actions, the referent should be clear to the subordinate. Interactional fairness behaviors would be difficult to attribute to any party other than the direct leader; that is, interpersonal treat- ment is likely to be perceived to be under the control of that individual (rather than due to organizational policies). Likewise, the relationship-based theory would suggest that perceived orga- nizational support is related to trust in organizational leadership, as individuals reciprocate toward an organization-level referent (Set- toon et al., 1996). For other actions, the appropriate referent may be less clear because the practice may often be developed on a systemwide basis by organizational leadership but ultimately im- plemented or enacted by direct leaders. Procedural fairness and PDM often fall within this domain (see, e.g., Bobocel & Holmvall, 2001). Although trust in both types of leaders will be significantly affected, we suggest that on average, subordinates will overat- tribute actions to direct leaders implementing the procedures. Attribution theory provides two bases for this prediction. First, the fundamental attribution error (the bias toward attributing behavior to person rather than situation) implies that subordinates will tend to attribute a direct leader’s implementation of the policy to his or her personal character. Second, procedures tend to cause the direct leader to behave in a manner that is consistent over time and across subordinates. Attribution theory principles of high consistency (similar treatment by leader over time) and low distinctiveness (similar treatment across employees) imply that individuals will attribute the actions to the character of the direct leader. Further- more, in many cases, these attributions may be veridical (i.e., the direct leader in fact initiated the practices without guidance from organizational leadership).

trust can be categorized into two different dimensions: cognitive and affective. Cognitive forms of trust reflect issues such as the reliability, integrity, honesty, and fairness of a referent. Affective forms of trust reflect a special relationship with the referent that may cause the referent to demonstrate concern about one’s welfare. Other definitions have implicitly combined these two dimensions into an overall measure of trust—which we consider to be a combination of affective and cognitive forms—or have implicitly or explicitly focused on one of them. Our analysis uses this framework (cog- nitive, affective, and overall) for recognizing potential distinctions between definitions because it captures existing differences be- tween definitions in a parsimonious manner.2

McAllister (1995) suggested that
