# TRUST IN LEADERSHIP META-ANALYSIS

significant moderator in 8 of the 10 relationships examined. Trust in direct leader had an equal or greater effect on four of the five workplace outcomes studied, including performance, altruism, in- tent to quit, and job satisfaction, than did trust in organizational leadership. One implication of this finding is that researchers or managers interested in obtaining the largest effect on these out- comes might focus on trust in direct leader. Our theory and findings also suggest one exception: When the researcher or man- ager is interested in an organization-focused outcome such as organizational commitment, trust in organizational leadership is likely to have a greater impact. Trust in direct leader may also be correlated with trust in organizational leadership (a post hoc anal- ysis of studies found r (cid:1) .38, k (cid:1) 6, N (cid:1) 1,159). Research is therefore needed to understand how trust in one referent influences trust in the other and also to examine the extent to which the two referents account for unique rather than overlapping variance in outcome variables.

examine operationalizations of trust that were purely affective; instead we compared cognitive definitions with overall definitions, assuming (on the basis of our review) that overall definitions were usually a composite measure including affective as well as cogni- tive elements. Seven out of the 10 hypothesized moderator effects were significant, and most were in the hypothesized direction. This set of findings indicates strong support for the theory given that, if anything, the weakness in the operationalization of the moderator variable should have diluted the moderator tests and weakened the results. We cannot entirely rule out the possibility that the use of a composite trust measure also distorted the moderator results to some degree. Yet on a broader level, the moderator analysis indicates that operational definition has a strong effect on the relationship between trust and its antecedents and consequences, supporting past theoretical efforts to distinguish among the sepa- rate dimensions of trust.

For antecedents, although organizational practices such as in- teractional justice, procedural justice, and PDM were related to trust in both direct and organizational leaders, they had larger relationships with the former. Consistent with the predictions of the relationship-based theory, the analysis also found that per- ceived organizational support was more strongly related to trust in organizational leadership than to trust in direct leader. Following our earlier suggestion, future research might probe practices or actions that will ultimately translate into trust in these different referents.

Last, future research might examine the relative importance of trust in leadership versus other referents, such as peers, and the different consequences associated with them. For example, after taking into account other determinants, Dirks (2000) found that trust in teammates had no effect on team performance, whereas trust in leadership had a substantial effect. He speculated that under different conditions, one might be more important than the other in facilitating team performance. In particular, an individu- al’s relative vulnerability to different referents may determine the extent to which trust in them is more or less important. For instance, in situations such as a self-directed work team in which an individual is more reliant on peers than a leader, trust in peers may be more important than trust in leadership. Or, both may have effects—but on different outcomes.

These findings highlight several issues for future research. First, more theory is needed to understand the antecedents and conse- quences of alternative dimensions of trust. We hope that our theoretical framework represents a step in that direction. The framework highlights the importance in future studies of matching processes (e.g., social exchange) with the appropriate definitions (e.g., affective trust); many past studies have failed to do so. Second, future studies might include multiple dimensions (affec- tive and cognitive) within a single study and attempt to distinguish between the processes involved. A few studies have examined multiple dimensions, (e.g., Mayer & Davis, 1999), but most have not hypothesized or examined differential relationships between those dimensions and the antecedents or consequences of trust. A related point is that past studies have focused too often on cogni- tive trust to the exclusion of affective trust. For practice, the findings imply that a particular management intervention such as procedural justice may be more effectual for developing some types of trust than others; also, one type of trust may be more effective in achieving a particular outcome than another (e.g., cognitive trust for increasing organizational commitment and de- creasing turnover intent).