# DIRKS AND FERRIN

trust and these two variables. Future research might therefore focus on better distinguishing the constructs theoretically and empirically.

The nature of the relationship between leader consideration behaviors and LMX is even more unclear. Given the substantial volume of research on leader consideration, one might question why the concept was not included in our meta-analysis. Our review process found only three studies that reported data on trust in leadership and consideration behaviors, a number too small for inclusion in the primary meta-analysis. Trust is sometimes speci- fied as an “essential element” (Fleishman & Harris, 1962, p. 43) of the definition of consideration behaviors. Because this definition includes trust, it is likely that few studies attempted to examine trust and consideration as two separate constructs. A similar prob- lem arises with LMX: Some studies include trust as part of the definition, whereas others treat it as a separate construct. Until there is some agreement about whether trust is distinct from these constructs, the advancement of research may be hindered. As implied in Figure 1, we advocate conceiving trust as a distinct construct that mediates the relationships between leader behaviors (e.g., consideration behavior, transformational leader behaviors) and followers’ responses to those behaviors (e.g., performance).

reciprocal (Dirks, 2000; Mayer et al., 1995). Future research might examine the interrelationships between trust and other variables. Procedural and distributive justice are examples of concepts that may be both cause and consequence of trust in leadership; for example, higher levels of procedural justice may increase trust, which in turn might provide a “halo” for perceptions of how one is treated in subsequent decisions.