---
source_path: trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2d098d23599c2786564d4d6efb7e92a1af829cf4
title: trust_in_leadership_meta_analytic_findings_and_implications_for_research_and_pra
---
# the nature of

Trust is also frequently associated with the perceived fairness of leadership actions. Specifically, employees’ trust in their leaders will be influenced by the level of perceived fairness or justice in the organizational practices or decisions, because the practices are likely to be seen as a signal of the nature of the relationship with the leader or the character of the leader. Researchers describe three types of justice that are relevant: distributive justice, which in- volves the allocation of outcomes; procedural justice, which deals with the processes that lead to decision outcomes; and interactional justice, the interpersonal treatment people receive as procedures are enacted. Some scholars (Brockner & Siegel, 1996; Konovsky & Pugh, 1994) have used the group value model to suggest that procedural justice is a source of trust because it demonstrates respect for the employee and a valuation of the relationship, whereas others might suggest that it could be interpreted as an indicator of the leader’s tendency to be fair. In contrast, scholars have suggested that distributive justice does not signal anything about the exchange relationship but simply follows standard norms. One might propose that distributive justice does, however, signal the fairness and integrity of a leader, and hence the character-based perspective would be relevant. Although these researchers did not discuss interactional justice specifically, we suggest that it would send a strong signal about the nature of the relationship (relationship-based perspective) because it involves the degree of respect with which the leader treats the follower.

Participative decision making (PDM) may send a message that the leader enacting the program has confidence in, and concern and respect for, the subordinate; it may also affect followers’ overall perceptions about the character of the leader (e.g., fairness). The literature on psychological contracts suggests that unmet expecta- tions (“breaches”; e.g., pay raises or promotions promised but not given) will decrease trust in leaders (Robinson, 1996). Unmet expectations are likely to influence followers’ trust by affecting the extent to which the leader is perceived to be dependable, to be honest, or to have integrity. Last, perceived organizational support involves an exchange relationship between individuals and the organization, where the individuals believe that the organization cares about their well-being. In sum, PDM may operate through either the relationship-based or the character-based perspective, unmet expectations are likely to operate through the character- based perspective, and perceived organizational support is likely to operate through the relationship-based perspective.

Among theories of leadership, trust has perhaps been most frequently cited in the literature on transformational leadership. According to several scholars, transformational leaders engage in actions that gain the trust of their followers and that in turn result in desirable outcomes (e.g., Podsakoff et al., 1990). Pillai et al. (1999) suggested that transformational leaders may operate by establishing a social exchange relationship with followers. For instance, transformational leaders may build trust by demonstrat- ing individualized concern and respect for followers (Jung & Avolio, 2000). In contrast, transactional leaders are said to focus more effort on ensuring that employees are rewarded fairly (con- tingent reward) and that followers recognize that they will fulfill the work contract. In sum, transformational leadership behaviors

1 As pointed out by a reviewer, the literature is unclear as to whether belief in information is a component of trust rather than a distinct construct. As part of the character-based perspective, perceiving that the leader is honest and in general “tells the truth” may be a component of trust. The construct “belief in accuracy of information” is different yet not entirely distinct, in that it refers to whether one perceives that the information in a particular context or circumstance is accurate. Fulk, Brief, and Barr (1985), for instance, examined whether one’s trust in a leader affects the extent to which information in a performance appraisal is accurate. As we discuss later, this construct is one of several in which the conceptual and empirical distinctions between trust and another construct are not unambiguous.
