# Turn Your Boss Into a Sponsor

https://hbr.org/2023/08/turn-your-boss-into-a-sponsor

5/7

their support. During a one-on-one meeting, ask them whetherthey’d be willing to be your sponsor and help you grow within theorganization. Reiterate that you respect their work, achievements,and career. You may also want to include a specific action itemthat you think would be helpful to your career progression.You can say something like: “I really admire your work. In the pasttwo years working for you, I have learned so much from you. AsI’ve mentioned, pursuing a digital marketing career at the globallevel is what I’m looking to do in the next two to three years.Would you be willing to support me in that and introduce me tothe key leaders at our corporate headquarters? Or do you know ofany projects that will help me gain more visibility with thosestakeholders?”Step 4: Stay connected.Update them on your progress.Sponsorship isn’t a one-time deal. One of the secrets of asuccessful relationship is keeping your sponsor informed on yourprogress and accomplishments. In so doing, they’ll be able toadvocate for you more effectively and on an ongoing basis.Further, it can help your boss remember your good work amidtheir busy schedule.If talking yourself up feels icky, reframe how you approach thesituation. Think about your updates as conveying the impactyou’ve had on the team and the organization. Your achievementsare also a reflection of your manager’s leadership potential. So,don’t hesitate to highlight how your work has contributed to yourteam’s (and boss’) success.Here’s an example of what you might say: “Thanks to yoursupport, we’ve acquired a total of 2,000 new customers with the