# THE DEVELOPMENT OF MODERN PSYCHOLOGY

International communication among psychologists has been important to the development of modern psychology. Communication has ﬂourished through world congresses, scholarly exchanges, and perhaps most importantly the es- tablishment of ongoing international organizations. While the chapter by Raymond Fowler and Wade Pickren (Chapter 26) details this development, it is important to highlight here three major international organizations that have played key roles. The oldest international organization of psychologists is the International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP). The IAAP was founded in 1920 at the ﬁrst International Congress of Applied Psychology, con- vened by E. Claparède in Geneva. The International Coun- cil of Psychologists (ICP) traces its roots to the National Council of Women Psychologists, established in New York City in 1941 by a group of U.S. women psychologists who

wished to contribute to the national war effort. The ICP be- came an international organization in 1946 and evolved to its current status in 1958, when it agreed to accept male members. The International Union of Psychological Sci- ence (IUPsyS) was founded in 1951 (then named the Inter- national Union of Scientiﬁc Psychology) at the Thirteenth International Congress of Psychology in Stockholm. In 1982, the IUPsyS, which has national organizations as its members, was admitted to represent psychology at the In- ternational Council of Scientiﬁc Unions.

James McKeen Cattell (1930), the ﬁrst U.S. scholar to ob- tain a doctorate with Wundt in 1886, noted in his presidential address to the 1929 International Congress of Psychology at Yale University that our psychological ancestors were mainly concerned with themselves, with their mates and their off- spring, and with the behavior of their fellows and their ene- mies. Satisfaction of desires, escape from danger and pain, and efforts to foresee and control the conduct of others were among their earliest interests. Commenting on the world of psychology at the time of the Congress, Cattell asserted the U.S. view when he told his international audience (1930):

It is not an accident that laboratory research in psychology is of German origin, that pathological psychology has been cultivated in France, that psychoanalysis has spread from Vienna, that Darwin and Galton were English, that objective psychology and the measurement of individual differences have had their chief development in the United States. Germany may keep its Gestalt psychology, France its hysterics, Austria its libido, England its “g”; we shall continue to bear the burden of our meta- behaviorism.” (p. 18)

Russian psychology developed along its own isolated lines and independently produced surprising parallels to de- velopments in the United States during the same time period (Berlyne, 1968). Pavlov presented a paper at the 1929 con- gress while claiming to be a physiologist, not a psychologist. As acknowledged by Lomov (1982), Soviet dialectical psy- chology was oriented to Marxist-Leninist principles and dominated by political inﬂuences oriented to the building of a communist society.

In the People’s Republic of China, too, the heads of national planning expected psychologists to lend their knowl- edge and skills to achieving the goals of the “four modern- izations.” To do so, a culturally speciﬁc psychology had to be created to “meet the demands of our own national condi- tions” (Ching, 1984, p. 63).

A similar situation could be observed in Nazi Germany and later in the German Democratic Republic (GDR), where psychology was dependent on central-planning authorities. The situation in Hitler’s Germany is reﬂected in Henle’s