---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 68e33da3f78dbb9f7dc26ab76e46e3a7208eef75
title: untitled
---
## The Thoroughbred Years (1970–Present) 423

ﬁrst was its persistent effort with the NCATE to jointly and separately recognize training programs that met NASP stan- dards. This was achieved within the NCATE’s revised proce- dures for unit accreditation and for programs that were in institutions that did not participate in NCATE accreditation. By the late 1980s, the NASP had reached an agreement with the NCATE to identify NASP-approved programs at both the doctoral and specialist degree levels. By 1999, approximately half of all training programs were so approved (Fagan & Wells, 2000). The second was the success of its National Certiﬁcation in School Psychology (NCSP) program, which gaveindividualpractitionersrecognitionforcompletingtrain- ing consistent with the NASP’s standards. More than 50% of NASPmembers held the NCSPduring the 1990s.

Within a decade of its founding, NASP became the domi- nant representative group for school psychologists at the national level, although it shared in several collaborative efforts with the APA and its Division of School Psychology. Descriptions of NASP history are found in School Psychol- ogy Digest (volume 8, number 2), School Psychology Review (volume 18, number 2), Fagan (1993, 1994), Fagan and Bose (2000), and Fagan, Gorin, and Tharinger (2000).

The Division of School Psychology still could not capture a representative practitioner membership. However, most trainers, especially those connected to doctoral programs, held membership in the division, often also holding member- ship in NASP. The division’s total membership persisted in the range of 2,300–2,800 throughout the period. As an ofﬁ- cial governance unit within the APA and accepting APA policies with regard to doctoral training, credentialing, and practice, the division consolidated its advocacy for doctoral school psychology, succeeded in gaining a stronger represen- tation on key APA boards and committees, and gained ap- proval for doctoral program accreditation, resulting in the ﬁrst accreditation of a program at the University of Texas in 1971. The growth of APA-accredited school psychology pro- grams was slow but steady beyond 1980, and by 1999 there were more than 50 accredited programs (Fagan & Wells, 2000). Accounts of the division’s history appear in Fagan (1993, 1996) and Fagan, Gorin, and Tharinger (2000).

The policies of the NASP and the APA included sharp differences regarding the legitimacy of the nondoctoral prac- titioner. These differences were at the center of most contro- versies among the NASP, the APA, and the APA’s Division of School Psychology. They inﬂuenced policies and negotia- tions on matters of training, credentialing, titles, and practice. For example, accreditation conﬂicts between the NCATE and the APA led to the establishment in 1978 of the APA-NASP Task Force, now titled the Interorganizational Committee (IOC). Although such differences have yet to be resolved, the
