# Cybernetics and the “Inside-Outside Problem” in Times of Suspicion and Surveillance

While the cybernetic age clearly had a hand in renewed study ofboundariesbetweeninnerandouter,orthe“inside-outside” problem (Heider, citing F. Allport, 1959, p. 115; Edwards, 1996; Hayles, 1999), equally mediating were postwar and McCarthy times in U.S. life heightening a psychological sen- sibility around inner-outer spaces. This period was itself, to quote M. Brewster Smith (1986), marked by a “crescendo of domestic preoccupation with loyalty and internal security” (p. 72). Drawing on the work of Paul Virillo, Hayles writes that “in the post–World War II period the distinction between inside and outside ceased to signify in the same way,” as “cybernetic notions began to circulate . . . and connect up with contemporary political anxieties” (p. 114). Worries over the “inability to distinguish between citizen and alien, ‘loyal American’and communist spy” (Hayles, p. 114) are concerns about distinguishing between appearances and reality, be- tween self and other, between surface and depth, outer and inner realms. Whereas David Riesman (1969) wrote that this period resulted in a shift from inner to an other-directed soci- ety, Richard Sennett (1974/1976) later countered with obser- vations that in fact the reverse order characterized midcentury American selves. American society had become increasingly marked by its stress on inner-directed conditions, by what he saw as a “confusion between public and intimate life” (p. 5). Side by side, these interpretations tell of a magniﬁed concern by social psychologists and citizens alike around borders and boundaries. Rearrangements in social divisions of private and public life, of inner- and other-directedness in postwar America, had at their heart a reconﬁguring of inner-outer boundaries.