## Sensation, Perception, Reason, and Cognition 87

this endeavor by the fact that we are born with a preexisting concept of space, intensity, and time from which we can de- rive the lesser qualities of size, distance, position, color, and so forth.

In the 1770s the German philosopher Immanuel Kant would restate this view. According to Kant, the intellect cre- ates those phenomena that we perceive by applying a set of speciﬁable and innate rules. The intellect’s task is made sim- ple because it has available an innate concept of space and time and several innate organizing categories and procedures that deﬁne quality, quantity, relation, and mode. The sensory systems simply provide whatever limited information they can, and our conscious reality is then shaped by our intellec- tual activity. The intellect ﬁlls in the holes and cleans up any minor discrepancies and inadequacies in the sensory repre- sentation. According to this view, the study of perception is simply part of the study of reason or cognition, and the study of senses, per se, would border on being a waste of valuable time and effort.

Plato’s views were not unchallenged even during his life. At the very time when half of the cultivated population of Athens were ﬂocking into the Grove of Hecatombs to listen to Plato’s discourse on the rule of intellect, the other half of the population were going to the rival school of Aristippus (ca. 435–366 B.C.). This philosopher maintained that the senses are inherently accurate and thus responsible for our accurate view of the environment; hence, there should always be good correspondence between perception and reality. If there are any distortions, however, it is the mind or judg- mental capacities that are limited and responsible for the discrepancies. This was not a new viewpoint. Protagoras (ca. 480–411 B.C.) captured the essence of this position when he said, “Man is nothing but a bundle of sensations.” This doctrine, which would become known as Sensism, would owe its reincarnation to the philosopher Thomas Hobbes (1588–1679), who restated this view in 1651 when he wrote: “There is no conception in man’s mind which hath not at ﬁrst, totally or by parts, been begotten upon the organs of sense.”

The height of the sensist doctrine can be found in the work of the associationist John Locke, who wrote more than 50 years after Hobbes about ideas. The very word “idea” is coined from the word eidola, which was supposed to be a copy of an object that was captured by the senses and sent to the mind. Eidolas were the basis of all sensory impressions and experience. An idea was a remembered or registered eidola, which could then be perceived by the mind, modiﬁed or associated with other ideas, and then laid down as a new idea or memory. Thus, in Locke’s view of psychology, if we want to understand the mind, we must ﬁrst have an accurate