---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2e99de4bb771586a561e1284bc81a78baf34602e
title: untitled
---
# 190 Personality

meeting . . . the three critical tests of science: understanding, prediction, and control” (p. 191; emphasis in original).

Although the appearance of several monographs on per- sonal documents and life histories (e.g., G. W. Allport, 1942; Dollard, 1935) suggests that these topics were salient in per- sonality psychology during the 1930s and 1940s (Craik, 1986), these monographs reﬂected the interests of several members of the SSRC, and their inﬂuence on personality psychologists appears to have been minimal. Platt (1996) notes that Chicago sociologist Ernest W. Burgess, who had a particular interest in case study methods, chaired the SSRC’s Committee on Appraisal of Research, which sponsored ap- praisals of the use of personal documents in several dis- ciplines (G. W. Allport, 1942; Gottschalk, Kluckhohn, & Angell, 1945). She ﬁnds, however, that during this period sociologists’ interest in case studies, life histories, and per- sonal documents was declining and that attention to these methods virtually disappeared following World War II (Platt, 1992, 1996). Plans for a third volume were apparently can- celed; Allport (1943a) had suggested that it either present a summary of German theories of Verstehen or review re- search, such as Murray’s, that related case studies to psycho- metric and experimental methods.

Hevern (1999) observes that although Allport’s mono- graph (G. W. Allport, 1942) outsold other SSRC volumes, his promotion of the case method was generally overlooked by mainstream psychologists. In contrast, Allport’s argument that the idiographic use of personal documents could meet the three tests of science (understanding, prediction, and con- trol) was widely cited by clinical psychologists in the debate regarding clinical and statistical prediction that coincided with the rapid expansion of clinical psychology during the 1940s and 1950s (Barenbaum, 1998; see Meehl, 1954). Iron- ically, the debate focused more on clinical predictions based on psychometric data than on the idiographic methods— involving subjective meanings—that Allport hoped to pro- mote (see G. W. Allport, 1962a).

Although his work on the American war effort interfered with his plans, Allport continued to collect personal docu- ments in hopes of interpreting and publishing them (e.g., G. W. Allport, 1945). Throughout his career he supported case studies “behind the scenes,” using them in his teaching and increasing their visibility during his term as editor of the Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology (1938–1949). In the 1940 volume, he featured a symposium on “psychoanaly- sis as seen by analyzed psychologists” (G. W. Allport, 1940c, p. 3). In 1943, he initiated a special “clinical supplement” consisting of case studies (G. W. Allport, 1943b), following it with regular clinical issues in 1944 and 1945. Beginning in April 1946, each issue included a section of case reports.

Allport described his solicitation and publication of case studies as “the one distinctive contribution that I have made during my term of editorial service” (G. W. Allport, 1949, p. 440). He also supported the work of authors such as Jean Evans, a reporter whose case studies appeared ﬁrst in the Journal (1948, 1950) and later in a book (1954). In her fore- word, Evans expressed her appreciation to “Dr. Gordon W. Allport, whose idea it was in the ﬁrst place that such a book should be written” (p. xvii).
