---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a68776acd2473758d0ae4d0a9779212eaae4c783
title: untitled
---
# Institutional Factors

The predominance of the psychometric approach in psycho- logical research on personality was reﬂected in the Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology after Prince offered to do- nate the journal, once oriented primarily toward practicing psychiatrists, to the American Psychological Association in 1925. The transfer of ownership took place on April 1, 1926 (G. W. Allport, 1938). Once social psychologist Henry T. Moore of Dartmouth replaced Floyd Allport as cooperating editor, the practice of publishing case studies declined dra- matically, conforming with publication trends in mainstream psychological journals where the proportion of reports fea- turing individual data had been declining steadily since the 1910s (Shermer, 1985). During Floyd Allport’s ﬁrst year as cooperating editor (1921–1922), the instructions appearing inside the front cover of each issue of the journal continued to direct authors to send articles to Prince. Allport’s closer col- laboration with Prince apparently resulted in only a small change in selection standards after he moved from Harvard to the University of North Carolina and assumed full editorial responsibility in 1922 (see also G. W. Allport, 1938; Shermer, 1985). The announcement of Moore’s appointment requested that contributors submit articles to him (Editors, 1925), and he appears from the beginning of his tenure to have selected articles according to “psychological” standards. Thus, the proportion of empirical papers based on the study of individ- ual cases dropped from an average of 65%, under Floyd Allport, to 30% under Moore (see Shermer, 1985): “Their place was taken by statistical studies based on group data” (Danziger, 1990, p. 165). (Moore himself conducted group studies using psychometric tests; see, e.g., Moore, 1925).

By the late 1920s, psychologists (e.g., G. W. Allport & Vernon, 1930; Murphy & Murphy, 1931) and sociologists (e.g., Bernard, 1932; Young, 1928) reviewing the personality literature were explicitly identifying the psychometric ap- proach with psychology, and life histories and case studies with sociology and psychiatry. Although several of these au- thors expressed positive views of studies of individual lives, their recommendations that psychologists explore such meth- ods appear to have had little impact (see, e.g., Parker, 1991). Like Woodworth (1929), other authors of psychological texts and reference works during the late 1920s and early 1930s tended to view the case study as a “clinical” method (Roback, 1927a; Warren, 1934) and to express doubts concerning its scientiﬁc status. For example, Symonds (1931) deﬁned the case study as “a comprehensive study of the individual,” but remarked, “It should be emphasized at the outset that the case study is not a research method. Primarily its function is to study the individual with a view toward helping him.” Case study data might be used in research, he suggested, but

only if they consisted of “facts . . . obtained in a reliable, ob- jective manner” using “scientiﬁcally valid methods” (p. 555). In striking contrast to the sociological literature of the period, psychological studies of personality reveal little con- cern regarding the development of methods to study individ- ual lives.The difference reﬂects a lack of institutional support for case methods in psychology, as compared to the support in sociology at the University of Chicago. One brief report of a methodological debate concerning case study and statistical approaches to personality, which took place in a “round table” on personality at the meeting of the American Psychological Association in 1930, suggests that case studies were quickly dismissed as insufﬁciently reliable (Ruckmick, 1931). One of the participants was L. L. Thurstone (Brigham, 1931), who represented the statistical point of view in the sociological debates at Chicago concerning case studies (Bulmer, 1984). Thurstone’s allegiance to the experimental perspective in psychology is revealed in his remark concerning personality research:

One of my principal interests in psychology to which I have returned several times has been the study of personality. . . . My conﬂict here was that, on the one hand, the center of psychology probably was the study of personality, but, on the other hand, I was unable to invent any experimental leverage in this ﬁeld. That was the reason why I turned to other problems that seemed to lend themselves to more rigorous analysis. (1952, p. 318)
