# Training Development

Training programs expanded rapidly in the 1970s, and for the remainder of the period between 200 and 230 institutions were offering programs at the master’s, specialists, and doc- toral levels. Program standards were proffered by the NASP that were in contrast to those of the APA. Both organizations offered procedures for program approval and accreditation.

By 2000, the NCATE, with the NASP as a constituent mem- ber, was the largest accreditor of nondoctoral programs, although the APAmaintained a stronger presence among doc- toral programs and related internship and postdoctoral train- ing sites. The Thoroughbred Years were characterized by much greater consistency in training curricula, the standards for which were increasingly interlocked with the credential- ing expectations of the state education and psychology boards.

Doctoral programs offered subspecializations (e.g., neu- ropsychology, preschool) to coincide with the broadening in- terests and practices of school psychologists and their diverse practice settings. Many subspecializations were represented in special-interest groups within the NASP and the APA. Some even had their own publications. As the number of subspecializations expanded, there was concern that the tra- ditional specialties of clinical, counseling, and school psy- chology might lose their identities because subspecialization often merged the interests of two or more specialty groups (e.g., school and child-clinical psychology along lines of pediatric applications).