---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: de9005d2777c3c8133d168454785543e02f6fbb2
title: untitled
---
# Organizational Developments

Participating in a broad effort to consolidate psychology groups to assist with government efforts during World War II, the AAAP, along with several smaller groups, merged with the APA in 1945. The new APA had 19 divisions, includ- ing the former divisions of the AAAP and Division 16, speciﬁcally for school psychologists (Fagan, 1993). Al- though the division struggled for survival during its ﬁrst sev- eral years, it provided a national organizational identity for practicing school psychologists that had not been available in the AAAP. The division was weak in comparison to those serving clinical, educational, and counseling psychology. In part, this was because its members were divided in their loy- alty to other divisions (many had previously belonged to the

educational or clinical sections of AAAP) and because the di- vision accepted as members only practicing school psycholo- gists. The membership requirement limited the number of academics that could join the division, which also reduced its research contributions and scientiﬁc image. Owing to these weaknesses and the general lack of a clear identity, the divi- sion did not share in the professional advancements of clini- cal and counseling psychology until the late 1960s. For example, the division did not achieve the status of awarding a diploma in school psychology as part of the American Board of Professional Psychology (ABPP) until 1968, nor did it share in accreditation until the beginning of the next period.

Despite these weaknesses, the division accomplished many things. In 1953, the APA adopted a code of ethics, and the division was active in adapting the code to the needs of school practitioners. The division’s convention programs and professional institutes were highly successful. It broadened membership to include academics and improved the status of nondoctoral members. A highlight of the period was the Thayer Conference of 1954, the proceedings of which were widely distributed (Cutts, 1955). The conference forged an identity for school psychology. It speciﬁed two levels of training and credentialing, with nondoctoral personnel ex- pected to be under the supervision of doctoral-level school psychologists and to carry titles such as “school psychologi- cal examiner.” Subsequently, standards for preparation at two levels and efforts to accredit programs at two levels were im- plemented but with little success.

Unlike clinical and counseling psychology, school psy- chology within the APA was unable to shed its nondoctoral practitioner advocacy, despite an allegiance to the doctoral requirement for full status as a psychologist. By the 1960s, fewer than 10% of the ﬁeld’s practitioners held doctoral degrees, and most positions were ﬁlled by persons with mas- ter’s degrees who wanted better national and state-level representation than the APA or its state afﬁliates provided. The ﬁrst separate state association for school psychologists was formed in Ohio in 1943. By 1970, 17 states had separate associations for school psychologists. In 1968, the Ohio School Psychologists Association organized a conference in Columbus, Ohio, attended by representatives of several states who chose to establish in 1969 a separate national group, the National Association of School Psychologists (NASP). In the same year, the Division of School Psycholo- gists changed its name to School Psychology in order to reﬂect a broader representation of school psychology as a ﬁeld of study in addition to persons who worked as school psychologists.
