data/clean/untitled__chunk0849.md, before:

# Biological Bases of Intelligence

condition, known today as aphasia, had been reported even in ancient Greece. Dax noticed that in all of more than 40 pa- tients with aphasia, there had been damage to the left hemi- sphere of the brain but not the right hemisphere. His results suggested that speech and perhaps verbal intellectual func- tioning originated in the left hemisphere of the brain.

Perhaps the most well-known ﬁgure in the study of hemi- spheric specialization is Paul Broca. At a meeting of the French Society of Anthropology, Broca claimed that a patient of his who was suffering a loss of speech was shown post- mortem to have a lesion in the left frontal lobe of the brain. At the time, no one paid much attention. But Broca soon became associated with a hot controversy over whether functions, particular speech, are indeed localized in the brain. The area that Broca identiﬁed as involved in speech is today referred to as Broca’s area. By 1864, Broca was convinced that the left hemisphere is critical for speech. Carl Wernike, a German neurologist of the late nineteenth century, identiﬁed language-deﬁcient patients who could speak but whose speech made no sense. He also traced language ability to the left hemisphere, though to a different precise location, which now is known as Wernicke’s area.

Nobel Prize–winning physiologist and psychologist Roger Sperry (1961) later came to suggest that the two hemi- spheres behave in many respects like separate brains, with the left hemisphere more localized for analytical and verbal processing and the right hemisphere more localized for holis- tic and imaginal processing. Today it is known that this view was an oversimpliﬁcation and that the two hemispheres of the brain largely work together (Gazzaniga, Ivry, & Mangun, 1998).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk0849.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d49399f8c3f20bbbc73edb7871a9c7e745d9b89a
title: untitled
---
# BIOLOGICAL BASES OF INTELLIGENCE

Some theorists have argued that notions of intelligence should be based on biological notions, and usually, on scien- tiﬁc knowledge about the brain. The idea here is that the base of intelligence is in the brain and that behavior is interesting in large part as it elucidates the functioning of the brain.

One of the earlier theories of brain function was proposed by Halstead (1951). Halstead suggested four biologically based abilities: (a) the integrative ﬁeld factor (C), (b) the ab- straction factor (A), (c) the power factor (P), and (d) the directional factor (D). Halstead attributed all four of these abilities primarily to the cortex of the frontal lobes. Hal- stead’s theory became the basis for a test of cognitive func- tioning, including intellectual aspects (the Halstead-Reitan Neuropsychological Test Battery).

A more inﬂuential theory, perhaps, has been that of Donald Hebb (1949). Hebb suggested the necessity of dis- tinguishing among different intelligences. Intelligence A is innate potential. It is biologically determined and represents the capacity for development. Hebb described it as “the pos- session of a good brain and a good neural metabolism” (p.294).IntelligenceBisthefunctioningofthebraininwhich development has occurred. It represents an average level of performance by a person who is partially grown. Although some inference is necessary in determining either intelli- gence, Hebb suggested that inferences about intelligence A are far less direct than inferences about intelligence B. A fur- ther distinction could be made with regard to Intelligence C, which is the score one obtains on an intelligence test. This intelligence is Boring’s intelligence as the tests test it.

A theory with an even greater impact on the ﬁeld of intel- ligence research is that of the Russian psychologistAlexander Luria (1973, 1980). Luria believed that the brain is a highly differentiated system whose parts are responsible for differ- ent aspects of a uniﬁed whole. In other words, separate corti- cal regions act together to produce thoughts and actions of various kinds. Luria (1980) suggested that the brain com- prises three main units. The ﬁrst, a unit of arousal, includes the brain stem and midbrain structures. Included within this ﬁrst unit are the medulla, reticular activating system, pons, thalamus, and hypothalamus. The second unit of the brain is a sensori-input unit, which includes the temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes. The third unit includes the frontal cortex, which is involved in organization and planning. It comprises cortical structures anterior to the central sulcus.

The most active research program based on Luria’s the- ory has been that of J. P. Das and his colleagues (e.g., Das, Kirby, & Jarman, 1979; Das, Naglieri, & Kirby, 1994; Naglieri & Das, 1990, 1997). The theory as they conceive of it is referred to as PASS theory, referring to planning, atten- tion, simultaneous processing, and successive processing. The idea is that intelligence requires the ability to plan and to pay attention. It also requires the ability to attend simultane- ously to many aspects of a stimulus, such as a picture, or, in some cases, to process stimuli sequentially, as when one memorizes a string of digits to remember a telephone num- ber. Other research and tests also have been based on Luria’s theory (e.g., Kaufman & Kaufman, 1983).

An entirely different approach to understanding intellec- tual abilities has emphasized the analysis of hemispheric spe- cialization in the brain. This work goes back to a ﬁnding of an obscure country doctor in France, Marc Dax, who in 1836 presented a little-noticed paper to a medical society meeting in Montpelier. Dax had treated a number of patients suffer- ing from loss of speech as a result of brain damage. The
