# 316 Abnormal Psychology

Descriptive psychiatry with classiﬁcation of data did not develop until, with the growth of institutions and the increas- ing professionalization of psychiatry, a sufﬁcient number of mental patients were gathered for observation over a period of time. In the second half of the nineteenth century, more than 15 national and international psychiatric societies were organized and almost ﬁfty journals of psychiatry appeared in the United States and Europe. Classifying types of mental illness began by establishing standard ways of describing symptoms and symptom clusters.

Emil Kraepelin (1856–1926) developed the ﬁrst widely accepted classiﬁcation of mental disorders and is considered the founder of modern psychiatric nosology. Kraepelin sys- tematically collected and described facts, on the basis of which he classiﬁed types of severe mental disorder. His Compendium der Psychiatrie went through eight editions between 1883 and 1914, growing to a multivolume textbook of psychiatry. Kraepelin divided the major psychoses into manic-depressive psychoses and dementia praecox, and sub- classiﬁed dementia praecox into three types: catatonia (characterized by mutism and maintenance of a bodily pos- ture for long periods of time), hebephrenia (characterized by inappropriate, often silly, speech and behavior), and paranoia (characterized by delusions of persecution and/or grandeur). He concluded that persons suffering from manic-depressive disorder can recover, whereas those with dementia praecox deteriorate, and hence hypothesized that dementia praecox may be of metabolic origin. Kraepelin emphasized the phys- iological causes of mental disorders and considered the per- sonal side of a patient’s illness as incidental to understanding psychopathology. He presented ordered groups of obser- vations, with clear detail and fully documented statistical tables, in order to establish that serious mental illness, like other diseases, has a predetermined course and outcome (Kraepelin 1915). No consistent, central system of diagnosis was established within the United States until the appearance of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual: Mental Disorders (DSM), ﬁrst published in 1952 by the American Psychiatric Association. Although this was a step forward, criticisms attacked its inherent inconsistency because the categories included disorders deﬁned on the basis of etiology, on the basis of behavioral symptomology, and on the basis of pre- sumed psychodynamics. However, the process of deﬁning classiﬁcation had begun, and revisions have followed throughout the latter half of the twentieth century. Eugen Bleuler (1857–1939), a Swiss psychiatrist, professor, and director of Burghölzli Asylum, Zurich, from 1898 to 1927, originated the term schizophrenia (“split-mind”) in 1908 as a generic label for the category of mental illnesses that Kraepelin had called dementia praecox. Bleuler believed that schizophrenia represents a split between a person’s emotional

life and faculty of reasoning that results from morbid thought processes that disturb the emotional integrity of the self, and that schizophrenia is amenable to psychotherapy.

By the 1870s, the ﬁeld of medicine had entered the era of modern scientiﬁc experimentation. Claude Bernard, French physician and physiologist considered the founder of experi- mental medicine, published his classic Introduction to Exper- imental Medicine in 1865, which established the value of experimental methods for determining mechanisms regulat- ing the activity of bodily systems and their relation to physi- cal pathology. Medical advances, such as Pasteur’s germ theory were based on the use of the pathogen model of dis- ease, sometimes loosely known as the “medical model.”

Knowledge of the role of pathogens and the accompanying social beneﬁts of immunological procedures established this model as the most effective strategy and has profoundly inﬂu- enced approaches to psychopathology. In so doing it has cre- ated vigorous controversy. Applied to the understanding of psychopathologythemodelassumesthatdisorderedbehaviors are symptoms of a particular pathology, the hidden cause of which must be discovered. The ﬁrst step is to sort mentally ill peopleintogroupsbasedonclustersofsymptoms(syndromes) common to each group. The second step is to determine the particular pathogen that has caused the disease in order to solve the problem of etiology. The third step, once a psy- chopathology has been diagnosed and its etiology established, istodeterminetheappropriatetreatmentforthecondition.The hidden pathogen may be biological (genes, for example) or may be past stressful experience. In the psychoanalytic model, the pathogen is an unconscious conﬂict, hidden from the patient and allegedly requiring the skill of the analyst to dis- cover.The critical difference between this metaphorical use of the term pathogen and its original meaning is that the analyst’s discovery cannot be visibly demonstrated to all who look, but its presence is inferred on theoretical grounds.