---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 599bb65fd276d373e88f5714eaa2f6e9a5ff2691
title: untitled
---
# Psychology of Gender

In an early paper, Rhoda Unger (1979) introduced psycholo- gists to the term gender, which she deﬁned as “those charac- teristics and traits socio-culturally considered appropriate to males and females.” The term was intended to set social as- pects of maleness and femaleness apart from biological mechanisms, so that the former could be submitted to scien- tiﬁc scrutiny. Important in its time, Unger’s deﬁnition of gender is only one of several in use today. Some have argued for putting aside the deﬁnition of gender as a set of traits of in- dividuals in favor of a view of gender as a socially prescribed set of relations. Reviewing research on sex and gender, Kay Deaux (1985) concluded that the research to that date had been severely limited by the assumption that gender could be fully understood as either a biological category, a ﬁnite list of sex differences, or a set of stable personality traits.The model she developed with Brenda Major (Deaux & Major, 1987) conceptualized gender as an interactive process.

Feminist theorists have articulated a number of additional ways to conceptualize gender that go beyond the individual difference model. Gender has been seen as a complex set of principles—a meaning system—that organizes male-female relations in a particular social group or culture (Bem, 1993; Hare-Mustin & Marecek, 1988). Gender has also been viewed as a marker of status, hierarchy, and social power (Henley, 1977). Others have conceptualized gender as the set of practices that create and enact masculinity and femininity in mundane social contexts and in social institutions such as language and law (Bohan, 1993; West & Zimmerman, 1987). Gender has even been conceptualized as the “incorrigible” set of beliefs that underlie the social construction of the binary sex categories, male and female (Kessler & McKenna, 1978). These alternative ways to conceptualize gender have opened new areas of research. The question is no longer simply “How do women differ psychologically from men?” Instead researchers are asking more radical questions: How are women and men perceived, treated, and rewarded differ- ently in social interactions? What are the habits, language

practices, and social institutions by which masculinity and femininity are constituted? How are gender distinctions sus- tained in particular social groups? How do they come to be seen as natural and inevitable? Construing gender as a system of social relations opens the way to considering gender in relation to ethnicity, class, and other dimensions of social or- ganization and hierarchy (Landrine, 1995; Reid, 1993).
