---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3f9ea9af03955e8ccfe0bed8e8f526f645deee4a
title: untitled
---
# 4 Psychology as a Science

debate; see Green, 2000) to German physician and physiolo- gist Wilhelm Wundt (1832–1920). Wundt received his MD degree from the University of Heidelberg in 1855. The natural sciences had become legitimized as a proper ﬁeld of study and were allied with medical training in the universi- ties. Research laboratories for scientiﬁc investigations were an accepted part of the university structure, and careers in scientiﬁc research were made possible (Ben-David, 1971, pp. 123–124). Wundt, trained in physiology as part of his medical education, pursued independent research as a stu- dent and chose physiology, not medicine, for his career (Bringmann, Balance, & Evans, 1975). As a lecturer at the University of Heidelberg, Wundt offered courses privately for a fee, conducted research, and became an assistant to Helmholtz. In 1862, he offered his ﬁrst course in “psy- chology as a natural science” (Bringmann et al., 1975) at Heidelberg, and in 1873–1874, the ﬁrst edition of his book, Grundzüge der physiologischen Psychologie (Principles of Physiological Psychology) called for the recognition of psy- chology as a discipline independent of philosophy and phys- iology (Blumenthal, 1985a; Fancher, 1996; but see Danziger, 1990).

In 1875, at the age of 42, Wundt accepted a position as professor of philosophy at the University of Leipzig, where he established the ﬁrst experimental research program in psy- chology. Chairs in science carried more prestige than those in philosophy, but the limited number of chairs available in sci- ence at the time made one in philosophy attractive to Wundt (Ben-David & Collins, 1966). Thus, psychology, like other sciences before it, began as part of the curriculum in philoso- phy; the acceptance of research laboratories as part of the university establishment permitted the founding of a labora- tory in conjunction with Wundt’s research.

Wundt had been engaged in psychological research for some time. As early as 1857, he constructed an apparatus in his home to measure reaction time and began accumulating a collection of instruments (kymographs, chronoscopes, tach- istoscopes, and devices to measure responses) that were eventually employed in his laboratory (Blumenthal, 1985a, p. 29). Upon his arrival at Leipzig, a space in a former uni- versity refectory building was assigned to Wundt to permit him to store his apparatus and to conduct demonstrations associated with his lectures. In 1879, Wundt and students Max Friedrich and American G. Stanley Hall began a pro- gram of independent research (Boring, 1965; Bringmann, Bringmann, & Ungerer, 1980) that initiated psychology as “the organized and self-conscious activity of a community of investigators” (Danziger, 1990, p. 18). In 1881, the ﬁrst issue of Wundt’s journal, Philosophische Studien, appeared featur- ing Friedrich’s dissertation research, and by 1883, the labora-

tory had acquired the status and budget of a research institute within the university (Boring, 1965; Bringmann et al., 1980; Danziger, 1990).

Experimental psychology as practiced by Wundt and his students at Leipzig employed the methods of physiology to study the contents and processes of individual human con- sciousness. Among the studies pursued in Wundt’s laboratory were psychophysical experiments to analyze and measure sensations, reaction-time experiments to measure the dura- tion of mental processes, and experiments on attention, mem- ory, and the association of ideas (Cattell, 1888). Wundt extended Donders’s subtractive procedure to the measure- ment of other mental processes, including association and judgment. His American student, James McKeen Cattell (1860–1944), elaborated on Donders’method in his research investigations at Leipzig between 1883 and 1886 and mea- sured the speed of verbal associations. In a particularly inno- vative set of experiments, he varied the number of letters, numbers, words, or sentences a stimulus card contained and exposed the card to observers very brieﬂy (.01 sec) to mea- sure the number of items that could be contained in con- sciousness at one time; the result was an estimate of the span of attention, or span of apprehension (Ladd, 1888). Early reports of experiments were enthusiastic in detailing the em- pirical results that the laboratory could provide but that were beyond the reach of the older philosophical psychology. Reports that the time taken to name a short word was .05 sec- onds less than the time taken to name a letter of the alphabet (Jastrow, 1886), or that the time taken to name colors or pic- tures was “about twice as long as the corresponding times for recognizing and naming letters or words” (Cattell, 1947b, p. 25), exemplify this fascination with quantifying dimen- sions of mental processes. Intrigued by the individual differ- ences in performance that he observed, Cattell would later explore the range of individual differences in a program of mental testing at Columbia University (Cattell, 1947c; Wundt, 1974; Fancher, 1996; Sokal, 1987).

In addition to the psychophysical and reaction time mea- sures that he employed, Wundt’s physiological psychology made use of reports of conscious experience. He distin- guished between Selbstbeobachtung (self-observation), the introspection of the philosophers, and innere Wahrnehmung (internal perception); the basis of conscious experience. Self- observation, as traditionally employed, could not meet the standard of scientiﬁc observation. To make a scientiﬁc intro- spection possible required careful control over the stimulus that was to produce the mental event to be observed and as short an interval as possible between the observation of the event and its recall and report. This was to be achieved by the experiment conducted in the laboratory under carefully

controlled conditions; experimentelle. Selbstbeobachtung was the form of introspection raised to scientiﬁc status by experi- mental procedures (although terminology when translated from the German can be problematic; compare Blumenthal, 1985a, p. 28 and Danziger, 1980, p. 244). In any case, to en- sure that this observational procedure could be a rigorous sci- entiﬁc method to assess mental events and did not lapse into the older philosophical reﬂection, Wundt established rules or guidelinesbywhichintrospectionmightachievescientiﬁcva- lidity: “(1) The observer, if at all possible, must be in a position to determine when the process is to be introduced; (2) He must be in a state of ‘strained attention’; (3) The observation must be capable of being repeated several times; (4)The conditions of the experiment must be such as to be ca- pable of variation of the strength and quality of the stimuli” (R. I. Watson & Evans, 1991, p. 280).

By knowing when a process is to be introduced (a stim- ulus presented), an observer may concentrate (strained attention) on the observation to be made and, to ensure reli- ability, be able to repeat the process. Varying conditions al- lowed the observer to identify changes in consciousness as a function of changes in the conditions of the experiment. Replicating conditions enhanced the reliability of the obser- vations to approach those of the observation of external events. These tight restrictions meant, with minor excep- tions, that “the introspective reports from his laboratory are very largely limited to judgments of size, intensity, and du- ration of physical stimuli, supplemented at times by judg- ments of their simultaneity and succession” (Danziger, 1980, p. 247).

Conﬁdence in the results of introspection depended upon conﬁdence in the skill and experience of the observer who, as the source of the data, was the critical component in psycho- logical experiments. In Wundt’s laboratories, the observer possessed psychological authority and expertise. Experimen- tal control over the introspective process was obtained not only by the rules for the conduct of an experiment but also by the use of observers whose habits of attentiveness and quickness of observation and reporting provided reliable data (Danziger, 1980). Published reports of experiments con- ducted in German and American laboratories identiﬁed each of the observers and their level of experience in introspection (e.g., Geissler, 1909; cf. Bazerman, 1987). The experimenter played a secondary role in manipulating the apparatus, pre- senting stimuli, and recording responses. The division of labor between experimenters and observers, who were col- leagues and collaborators, was primarily one of convenience; roles were routinely exchanged, with few exceptions: Wundt, for example, served as an observer in some of the Leipzig experiments but never as experimenter.
