## Theory and Practice in the Classical Period 309

characterized by severe digestive disturbances and ﬂatulence; because proper coction of humors was assumed to depend on good digestion, it followed that digestive disorders would be a signiﬁcant cause of melancholy. The notion of hypochon- driacal melancholy was still current in the seventeenth cen- tury (see Burton, 1654/1927) and being described in the eighteenth century. By the twentieth century, hypochondria- sis had come to mean a morbid concern about one’s health. Melancholy tends to occur in individuals constitutionally inclined to the disorder. Galen observed that melancholy was more common in men but tended to be more serious in women, and that it occurred sometimes in young persons, was uncommon in persons in the prime of life, and was so common in older people that it could be considered an almost inevitable result of advancing age. Individuals who suffer from melancholy are usually, but not always, sad and fearful; some wish to die, others fear death. Symptoms of melancholy described by Galen included incoherent speech, mutism, amnesia, and elaborate delusions. A melancholy patient might be delusional, yet be otherwise sane. Instances of delu- sions mentioned by Galen include the conviction of a patient that he was made of glass and feared being broken, the belief of another patient that he had no head, and beliefs of being poisoned or chased by demons. Galen’s case histories were plagiarized throughout the course of medical and psychiatric history—and were, perhaps, plagiarized by Galen from others before him.

Galen recommended the traditional treatments of blood- letting, purgations, herbal remedies, and a regimen of exer- cise and nutritious diet, and suggested that sexual intercourse could be beneﬁcial. He is known for his emphasis on the use of drugs (which came to be called “galenicals”) in the treat- ment of disease, although most of the drugs he used were not original with him. Galen discussed hysteria, believed caused by disease of the uterus, which was not considered a form of madness because psychological symptoms were not an es- sential aspect of the disorder. Although Galen believed that the uterus could be displaced from its normal position, he rejected the ancient idea that the uterus could be freed from its attachments to move about the body. Like earlier medical theorists, Galen believed that hysteria was a disease of unmarried women and widows as a result of their being deprived of sexual intercourse.

Galen’s writings were synthesized and elaborated by later Greek authors. Although the medical schools of Athens and Alexandria continued to function at least until the seventh century and some medical treatises, largely based on Galen’s teaching were written, interest in scientiﬁc medicine de- clined in Western Europe after the fall of the Roman Empire. Waning interest may have derived from decreasing numbers