# the Olympic Games

The APA representative was warmly received on arrival in Berlin at the end of February 1980. During dinner at the home of the congress president, it was noted that the only foreign troops then occupying Afghanistan were Russian, that the proposed U.S. sanctions did not apply to any other country, and that an editorial in the March APA Monitor would urge U.S. psychologists not to boycott the Leipzig congress. The congress president was pleased and an- nounced that arrangements had been completed for issuing visas to Israeli psychologists on arrival in the GDR. How- ever, the ﬂag of Israel would not be ﬂown with those of other IUPsyS member countries. Although there was no mention in the IUPsyS constitution about displaying ﬂags,

the APA representative noted the likely protests such action would entail, leading to embarrassment for the union. It was eventually agreed that only the host country ﬂag would be ﬂown or displayed at the congress. When asked whether APA would invite representatives from all member coun- tries to its usual reception, the reply was that, since the congress would be in Leipzig and not in Moscow, Soviet colleagues would be invited. In case of any unanticipated problem, the reception would be canceled. Soviet col- leagues did not, however, respond to the APA’s reception invitation.

The Leipzig congress was a success. There were no com- plaints about visas or the absence of national ﬂags. When the IUPsyS joined the International Council of Scientiﬁc Unions (ICSU) in 1982, it accepted the responsibility of ensuring that all congresses and meetings under its auspices would be convened in conformity with ICSU’s Statement of the Free Circulation of Scientists. Based on the International Bill of Human Rights, the ICSU statement stipulates that scientists have the right and freedom to participate in international sci- entiﬁc activity without regard to citizenship, religion, creed, political stance, ethnic origin, race, color, language, age, or gender.