---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 53e0c4aeb7018641f8514fbd903e4851c7d5cfb1
title: untitled
---
# 166 Emotion

is linked to a speciﬁc facial display that provides feedback to the central brain mechanisms. All other affects are considered secondary and represent some combination of the primary affects. Izard (1971, 1972) presents an ambitious and com- prehensive theory that incorporates neural, visceral, and sub- jective systems with the deliberate aim to place the theory within the context of personality and motivation theory. Izard also gives pride of place to feedback from facial and postural expression, which is “transformed into conscious form, [and] the result is a discrete fundamental emotion” (Izard, 1971, p. 185). Mandler (1975) presented a continuation of Schachter’s position of visceral/cognitive interactions with an excursion into conﬂict theory, to be discussed below.

Frijda (1986) may be the most wide-ranging contempo- rary theorist. He starts off with a working deﬁnition that de- ﬁnes emotion as the occurrence of noninstrumental behavior, physiological changes, and evaluative experiences. In the process of trying a number of different proposals and investi- gating action, physiology, evaluation, and experience, Frijda arrives at a deﬁnition that’s broad indeed. Central to his posi- tion are action tendencies and the individual’s awareness of them. The tendencies are usually set in motion by a variety of mechanisms. Thus, Frijda describes emotion as a set of mechanisms that ensure the satisfaction of concerns, com- pare stimuli to preference states, and by turning them into re- wards and punishments, generate pain and pleasure, dictate appropriate action, assume control for these actions and thereby interrupt ongoing activity, and provide resources for these actions (1986, p. 473). The question is whether such mechanisms do not do too much and leave nothing in mean- ingful action that is not emotional. At least one would need to specify which of the behaviors and experiences that fall under such an umbrella are to be considered emotional and which not. But that would again raise the elusive problem as to what qualiﬁes as an emotion.

Ortony, Clore, and Collins (1988) deﬁne emotions as “valenced reactions to events, agents, or objects, with their particular nature being determined by the way in which the eliciting situation is construed” (p. 13). Such a deﬁnition is, of course subject to James’s critique; it is abstracted from the “bodily felt” emotions. Richard Lazarus and his co- workers deﬁne emotion as organized reactions that consist of cognitive appraisals, action impulses, and patterned somatic reactions (Folkman & Lazarus, 1990; Lazarus, Kanner, & Folkman, 1980). Emotions are seen as the result of continuous appraisals and monitoring of the person’s well-being. The result is a ﬂuid change of emotional states indexed by cognitive, behavioral, and physiological symp- toms. Central is the notion of cognitive appraisal, which leads to actions that cope with the situation.

Many of the mental/central theories are descendants of a line of thought going back to Descartes and his postulation of fundamental, unanalyzable emotions. However some 300 years later there has been no agreement on what the number of basic emotions is. Ortony and Turner (1990) note that the number of basic emotions can vary from 2 to 18 depending on which theorist you read. If, as is being increasingly ar- gued nowadays, there is an evolutionary basis to the primary emotions, should they not be more obvious? If basic emo- tions are a characteristic of all humans, should the answer not stare us into the face? The emotions that one ﬁnds in most lists are heavily weighted toward the negative emotions, and love and lust, for example, are generally absent (see also Mandler, 1984).
