---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c7f4338f24506650e0897122c7c0606475eca936
title: untitled
---
## Biases in Diagnosis and Clinical Judgment

The history of mental health treatments is replete with exam- ples of diagnostic classiﬁcations that reﬂected and repro- duced cultural stereotypes about women, as well as ethnic minority group members, immigrants, and poor people. From the middle of the nineteenth century until well into the twen- tieth, for example, women and girls whose sexual desire was deemed excessive risked being diagnosed with nymphoma- nia (Groneman, 1994). In some cases, clitoridectomy was the treatment. Neurasthenia, a condition involving diffuse symp- toms of low mood, nervousness, and fatigue, was diagnosed in large numbers of American women. The treatment was a prolonged period of enforced bed rest and social isolation, during which reading, writing, and other forms of intellectual stimulation were banned.

Our own times have spawned a jumble of diagnostic categories. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association (DSM) (American Psychi- atric Association, 1994) lists the diagnoses that are ofﬁcially recognized. Feminists and other critics are concerned that the scope of the DSM has widened appreciably each time it has been revised. The ﬁrst edition, published in 1952, contained 198 entries. The fourth one, published in 1994, contains 340. The power of mental health professionals to judge, catego- rize, and label has come to encompass more and more domains of human experience. In addition, unofﬁcial diag- nostic classiﬁcations proliferate freely in popular culture and psychotherapy vernacular—Sex Addiction, Battered Woman Syndrome, Codependency, Abortion Trauma Syndrome, In- ternet Addiction, and ACOA(Adult Child of an Alcoholic), to name a few. Although such diagnoses have no ofﬁcial status and little or no systematic research to substantiate them, they, too, exert considerable cultural inﬂuence.

Feminists have looked askance at the burgeoning list of diagnoses and pseudodiagnoses. These categories impose a particular way of understanding one’s own and others’suffer- ing. They make psychological disorders akin to physical dis- orders, seeming to exist separately from the social context in which they arise and to be unrelated to its politics and values. Feminists have raised additional concerns about several speciﬁc diagnostic categories. Along with other progres- sive social groups, they mobilized in the early 1970s to ex- punge homosexuality from the list of psychiatric diagnoses in the DSM. (Ultimately, the membership of the American
