# Central/Mental Approaches to Emotion

Starting with the 1960s, the production of theories of emo- tion, and of accompanying research, multiplied rapidly. In part, this was due to Schachter’s emphasis on cognitive fac- tors, which made possible a radical departure from the James-Lange tradition. The psychological literature reﬂected these changes. Between 1900 and 1950, the number of refer- ences to “emotion” had risen rather dramatically, only to drop drastically in the 1950s. The references to emotion recovered in the following decade, to rise steeply by the 1980s (Rimé, 1999).

Historically, the centralist/mental movements started with the unanalyzable feeling, but its main thrust was its insistence on the priority of psychological processes in the causal chain of the emotions. Whether these processes were couched in terms of mental events, habits, conditioning mechanisms, or sensations and feelings, it was these kinds of events that re- ceived priority and theoretical attention. By mid-twentieth century, most of these processes tended to be subsumed under the cognitive heading—processes that provide the or- ganism with internal and external information. The shift to the new multitude of emotion theories was marked by a major conference on emotion at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm in 1972 (Levi, 1975). It was marked by the pres- ence of representatives of most major positions and the last joint appearance of such giants of human physiology of the preceding half century as Paul MacLean, David Rioch, and Jose Delgado. In order to bring the history of emotion to a temporary completion, it is necessary to discuss some of the new arrivals in mid-century. I shall brieﬂy describe the most prominent of these.

Initially, the most visible position was Magda Arnold’s, though it quickly was lost in the stream of newcomers. Arnold (1960) developed a hybrid phenomenological- cognitive-physiological theory. She starts with the appraisals of events as “good” or “bad,” judgments that are unanalyz- able and are part of our basic humanness. She proceeds from there to the phenomenology of emotional “felt tendencies” and accompanying bodily states, and concludes by describ- ing the possible neurophysiology behind these processes. Also in the 1960s, Sylvan Tomkins (1962–1992), the most consistent defender of the “fundamental emotions” approach, started presenting his theory. Tomkins argued that certain eliciting stimuli feed into innate neural affect programs, which represent primary affects such as fear, anger, sadness, surprise, happiness, and others. Each of these primary affects