# North America

The development and organization of psychology in the United States is best viewed against the backdrop of changes in American life and society. Along with a number of other disciplines (e.g., economics, political science, biochemistry, physiology) in the last two decades of the nineteenth century, the new psychology grew and prospered as it responded to the needs of American society (Appel, 1988; Kohler, 1982; Sokal, 1992). The Progressive movement in politics was one overt response to the calls for a more efﬁcient, less corrupt, social order, while in academia there was a parallel response as American universities sought to provide trained personnel to ﬁll the new professional niches created by the demands for a more efﬁcient society.

The modern university that emerged after the U.S. Civil War was both a product and a producer of the increasingly

rationalized society (Veysey, 1965). As Wiebe (1967) points out, this was the era of the rise of the expert who restricted himself to a specialized function in order to increase his au- thority. The new graduate schools, modeled on the German research university, provided professional training for this new class of experts (Veysey, 1965). Psychology and other disciplines emerged as examples of the increasing specializa- tion of knowledge within the university. The most successful of these new disciplines were the ones that found a way to use their specialized knowledge in the practical service of the larger community. Psychology was among those successful disciplines.

In July 1892, G. Stanley Hall (1844–1924) met with a small group of men to discuss the possibility of organizing a psychological association (Fernberger, 1932). Although the details of the meeting are not known, the group elected 31 in- dividuals, including themselves, to membership, with Hall as the ﬁrst president. The ﬁrst meeting of the new American Psychological Association (APA) was held in December 1892 at the University of Pennsylvania. The basic gover- nance of the APA consisted of a council with an executive committee, a plan that is essentially the same as that of the beginning of the twenty-ﬁrst century: a Council of Represen- tatives with a Board of Directors.

Membership growth of the APA was modest over the ﬁrst 50 years of its existence. From 31 members in 1892, there were125membersin1899,308in1916,530in1930,and664 in 1940. In 1926, a new class of nonvoting membership was formed, associate, and most of the growth occurred in that classafter1926,sothattherewere2,079associatemembersin 1940. During World War II, the APA merged with other psy- chological organizations under a reorganization plan that broadened the scope of psychology to include professional practiceandthepromotionofhumanwelfare.Thereorganized APAwas prepared for the postwar boom in psychology.

The greatest growth in APAmembership came after World War II. Returning servicemen, with federal education beneﬁts (e.g., the GI bill), ﬁlled the psychology graduate pro- grams of American universities. Many of them were inter- ested in the new clinical psychology training programs. Training mental health personnel became a priority for the Veterans Administration and the new National Institute of Mental Health. Millions of dollars were poured into psychol- ogy in the postwar period; these monies led to signiﬁcant in- creases in faculty as well as students. In the 25-year period from 1945 to 1970, the APA experienced the most rapid growth of its entire history. Membership grew over 630%, from 4,183 to 30,839 members (Crawford, 1992). From 1970 to 2000, APA membership grew to 88,500, with another 70,500 afﬁliates.

The divisional structure of the APAthat grew out of the re- organization plan during World War II facilitated the growth of psychology and represented the increasing diversity of American psychology (Benjamin, 1997b; Dewsbury, 1997). Nineteen divisions were approved in 1944; ﬁve of them were sections from the American Association of Applied Psychol- ogy (AAAP), which had emerged in 1937 as the chief rival to the APA. The two most popular divisions reﬂected the prac- tice and application emphasis of the AAAP: clinical and per- sonnel (Benjamin, 1997b). However, the number of divisions was almost immediately reduced to 17 when the Psychomet- ric Society (Division 4) decided not to join and Division 11, Abnormal Psychology and Psychotherapy, merged with Division 12, Clinical Psychology. By 1960, there were 20 di- visions. From 1960 to 2001, 32 more divisions were formed to bring the total to 52. Most of the growth of divisions oc- curred in areas of psychological practice and reﬂected partic- ular practice focuses, for example, Division 50, Addictions. Until the 1990s, divisions oriented to psychological science also experienced membership increases. However, by the end of the twentieth century, membership in some science divi- sions was decreasing.

The events that led to the founding of the Canadian Psy- chological Association (CPA) began in the Spring of 1938 with the distribution of a questionnaire to Canadian psychol- ogists seeking to determine their interest in a national organi- zation. During a meeting held in June 1938 a motion was approved to form a Canadian association. A group was formed in 1939 to draft a constitution for the new society. The constitution was ratiﬁed in December 1940 and the CPA was incorporated in 1950 (Dzinas, 2000).

Like its neighbor the APA, the CPA was organized over the twentieth century into divisions, with a total of 23 sections in 2000. The CPA at the end of the century pub- lished three journals and a newsletter.