---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 91b76bfbe102a2de6ec2011104750fe1172643bd
title: untitled
---
# Psychology in Germany

One of Wundt’s contemporaries who believed that higher mental processes could be the object of experimental investi- gation was Hermann Ebbinghaus (1850–1909). Inspired by the psychophysics of G. T. Fechner and philosopher J. F. Herbart’s attempt to apply mathematics to mental represen- tations, Ebbinghaus used precise quantitative methods to investigatememory(Murray,1976).Heservedasboththeex- perimenter and the subject of his investigations. In order to have relatively homogeneous material to learn and to reduce the impact of any previous semantic associations, such as occurred in his early experiments in learning and remember- ing poetry, Ebbinghaus developed the “nonsense syllable,” largely pronounceable consonant-vowel-consonant combina- tions. He created syllable lists of various lengths that he learned and then later relearned after different lengths of time. The percentage of time saved in relearning the lists became known as the “savings method” of memory (Murray, 1976, p. 206; Hoffman, Bringmann, Bamberg, & Klein, 1987). Ebbinghaus found that the amount of time spent in relearning lists was greater for longer lists and for longer retention inter- vals. The graph of his results became the standard curve of forgetting, still reproduced in textbooks as a classic result. The curve showed that recall of learned lists was perhaps 85% after one hour, approximately 50% after one day, and as little as 15% after about six days. These ﬁndings stimulated a long tradition of memory research (e.g., Postman, 1968). After publication of his monograph Über das Gedächtnis (On Memory), Ebbinghaus established laboratories at several uni- versities and attracted some American students, but his time was increasingly devoted to a editing a journal and writing (Fuchs, 1997). Leadership of memory research fell to Georg Elias Müller (1850–1931) at Göttingen University.

Müller, a dedicated experimentalist, invented the memory drum, a mechanical device for presenting one verbal stimulus at a time, used in conjunction with experiments on serial list learning and list retention. The memory drum, modiﬁed subsequently by Müller for research in paired associate learn- ing (Haupt, 1998), became a standard piece of laboratory equipment for studies of verbal learning and memory until replaced by the computer. Müller’s research reports on his studies of memory extended from 1893 to 1917 and included

“the theoretical contributions of retroactive inhibition, perse- veration, and consolidation” (Murray & Bandomir, 2000). Müller initiated what later was termed the interference theory of forgetting, a position that argues that forgetting is a func- tion of the interference among competing memories at the time that a particular memory is being retrieved and not a function of a decay or loss of memory traces (Murray, 1988). The topic was not addressed directly by Ebbinghaus, but the rapid forgetting that his retention curve recorded has been interpreted as offering evidence of the role of interference in memory (Murray, 1988; Underwood, 1957).

Müller’s experimental interests were not limited to mem- ory research. He built on the contributions of Fechner, Ewald Hering, and Mary Whiton Calkins in becoming a leader in the development of the methodology of psychophysics, conduct- ing studies on color vision and investigating paired-associate verbal learning (Blumenthal, 1985b; Murray, 1976). His lab- oratory was well supplied with experimental apparatus (Haupt, 1998) and attracted a number of psychologists to pursue research with him. Müller’s laboratory seems to have been especially hospitable to women interested in psychol- ogy; among those studying at Göttingen were, for example, Americans Mary Whiton Calkins, Eleanor Gamble, and Lillien Jane Martin. Other laboratories and universities were less open in this regard (Furumoto, 1987; Scarborough & Furumoto, 1987).
