# Conceptualizations of Insanity

While the ancient Greeks and Romans pioneered the use of notions of insanity in the law, later several widely publicized cases in Great Britain laid the groundwork for the treatment of insanity in the American and Canadian courts. Rex v. Arnold in 1723 involved the trial of Edward Arnold, also known as “Mad Ned” Arnold, who shot and wounded Lord Onslow, a nobleman closely aligned with the new British king, George I. Justice Tracy elucidated what has become known as the “wild beast” test, stating that in order for a per- son to be found not liable for an offense, he must be “a man that is totally deprived of his understanding and memory, and doth not know what he is doing, no more than an infant, than a brute, or a wild beast . . .” (Walker, 1968, p. 56). Arnold was found guilty and sentenced to death, but Lord Onslow inter- ceded and Arnold remained in prison for life. Although the defense did not call any medical witnesses, the judge ruled that evidence about the defendant’s behavior after the crime was admissible, thus paving the way for medical testimony in future trials about the results of examinations of the de- fendant performed after the crime. Finkel (1988, p. 3) as- serted that this case was “the Anglo-American benchmark case most commonly cited as the historical beginning of the insanity defense.”

In 1800, James Hadﬁeld attempted to assassinate King George III. Hadﬁeld had suffered a serious head wound while ﬁghting for the British against the French six years earlier. As a result of his injury, part of his skull was missing, the membrane of his brain was exposed, and he had been dis- charged from the army due to insanity. Now he believed that he had been instructed by God to kill the “evil” king, and he stated that he knew he would be executed for his act. Since he knew what he was doing and the consequence that would follow, he was not insane according to the “wild beast” test. However, Hadﬁeld’s defense attorney, Thomas Erskine, ar- gued instead that Hadﬁeld was a “lunatic” whose actions were caused by a “morbid delusion.” Given the grievousness

Early Attempts to Apply Psychological or Psychiatric Knowledge to the Legal System 393

of his grotesque injury, and the fact that all of the witnesses’ testimony supported the notion of insanity, both sides agreed to stop the trial and invite the jury to ﬁnd Hadﬁeld not guilty due to insanity. The jury did so, and Hadﬁeld was committed to an institution. This case overturned the “wild breast” stan- dard by ﬁnding that one did not have to be totally devoid of reason to be found not guilty due to insanity. It showed that a person whose behavior is controlled by a delusion, even if he knows the difference between right and wrong, may be found insane. The principles established in the Hadﬁeld case were used in the United States in 1835 in the Washington, DC, trial of a man who had shot at President Andrew Jackson (Rieber & Green, 1981).

In 1843, Daniel McNaughten (or M’Naghten), a wood- turner and shopkeeper from Glasgow, Scotland, attempted to assassinate British prime minister Robert Peel. Instead, he mistakenly shot and killed the prime minister’s secretary, Edward Drummond. In his only public statement about his motives, McNaughten said, “The Tories in my native city have compelled me to do this. They follow, persecute me wherever I go and have entirely destroyed my peace of mind. They followed me to France, into Scotland, and all over England. In fact they follow me wherever I go. I cannot sleep nor get no rest from them. I shall never be the man I was. I used to have good health and strength, but I have not now” (quoted in Moran, 1981, p. 10). McNaughten’s statement formed the basis for an insanity defense at his trial.

When arrested, McNaughten had in his pocket a deposit slip for 750 pounds, a huge sum for a man in his position. These funds were used to hire what might be called the ﬁrst legal defense “Dream Team,” 150 years before the O. J. Simpson murder trial. McNaughten was defended by four barristers; they called nine medical experts who testiﬁed that he was insane or “partially insane.” The prosecution did not attempt to counter the defense’s medical testimony, and the prosecutor withdrew the Crown’s case against McNaughten after the medical testimony had been given. Not surprisingly, the jury quickly came to a verdict (in less than 2 minutes!) of not guilty by reason of insanity (Finkel, 1988).

Queen Victoria, who had herself been shot at by an assas- sin three years earlier, was not amused, and neither was the House of Lords, which discussed the issue further. The even- tual result was the “McNaughten rule” as established by the House of Lords, which speciﬁed that, “To establish a defense on the ground of insanity it must be clearly proved that, at the time of committing the act, the party accused was labor- ing under such a defect of reason, from disease of the mind, as not to know the nature and quality of the act he was doing, or if he did know it, that he did not know he was doing what was wrong” (Finkel, 1988, p. 21). This “McNaughten rule”

remains the standard for deﬁning insanity in about half of the U.S. states.

A fascinating sidelight to this case concerns the chaotic political situation of the day and the mysterious 750 pounds. Where did a lowly shopkeeper get such a huge sum of money? Apparently, neither the defense nor the prosecution was overly curious at the time. Much later, Moran (1981, p. 4) suggested that the verdict was mainly the result of political considerations rather than McNaughten’s mental state, con- trary to the court’s stated basis for the decision. McNaughten was not insane, Moran asserted. Given the great political tur- moil of the times in McNaughten’s home area (riots, general unrest and political intrigue, Tory spies and agents throughout England and Scotland), and McNaughten’s known status as an orator and antigovernment sympathizer, his statement may have had the ring of truth to it. Finkel (1988, p. 18) suggested, “Perhaps he was striking back, defending himself against a se- ries of escalating harassments that might, if unstopped, lead to his own murder? Was it an act of self-defense? A much- provoked reaction? Or was the unexplained 750 pound note a payment for a political assassination that simply did in the wrong man?” How ironic if this landmark insanity verdict was based upon a false premise!

Shortly before this incident, Isaac Ray (1838/1983) had written A Treatise on Medical Jurisprudence of Insanity, which was regarded in England and the United States as the most inﬂuential book in this area at the time (Rieber & Green, 1981). Often described as the “father of forensic psychiatry,” Ray wrote that no act done by a person in a state of insanity can be punished as an offense. This approach asserted that it was not necessary to show that the insanity caused the act or that the act was the product of an “irresistible impulse.” This perspective was later incorporated in the deﬁnition of insan- ity introduced in the case of Durham v. United States (1954). However, this approach is now used in only one U.S. state, New Hampshire (Wrightsman, 2000).

The McNaughten rule had been adopted by the federal courts and most U.S. state courts by 1851 (Simon, 1983). While the McNaughten rule focused on cognitive factors (knowing, understanding), another approach recognized a volitional factor: whether or not the person, due to a mental disorder that produced an “irresistible impulse,” was unable to prevent himself from committing an act. The irresistible impulse test was used in the United States just one year after the McNaughten case in England and was endorsed by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1897 in Davis v. United States (Garrison, 1998).

With respect to psychology’s role in such proceedings, it was not until the mid-twentieth century, a half century after the establishment of psychology as a scientiﬁc discipline, that