# The Symbol-System Hypothesis

Herbert Simon and his colleague Allan Newell ﬁrst drew the connection between human and computer cognition at the RAND Corporation in 1954 (Simon, 1996). Simon was by training an economist (he won the 1981 Nobel Prize in that ﬁeld). As a graduate student, Simon had been greatly inﬂu- enced by the writings of E. C. Tolman, and was well schooled in formal logic. Previously, computers had been seen as glo- rious, if ﬂexible, number crunchers, calculators writ large. Simon saw that computers could be more fruitfully and gen- erally viewed as symbol manipulators.

By the early twentieth century, logicians had estab- lished the concept of interpreted formal systems, in which

propositions stated in language could be reduced to abstract formal statements and manipulated by formal rules. For ex- ample, the statement “If it snows, then school will be closed” could be represented by p ⊃ q, where p (cid:2) “it snows,” q (cid:2) “school closes,” and ⊃ (cid:2) the logical relation if . . . then. If one now learns that it is snowing, one may validly infer that school will be closed. This inference may be represented as the formal argument modus ponens:

- 1. p ⊃ q 2. p 3. therefore, q

The signiﬁcance of the translation into abstract, formal symbols is that we can see that it is possible to reason through a situation without knowledge of the content of the proposi- tions. Modus ponens is a valid inference whether the topic is the connection between snow and school closings or whether a pair of gloves ﬁts a murder suspect and the verdict (“If the gloves don’t ﬁt, you must acquit.”) Mathematics is a formal system in which the variables have quantitative values; logic isaformalsysteminwhichthevariableshavesemanticvalues. In both systems, valid reasoning is possible without knowl- edge of the variables’value or meaning.

Simon proposed, then, that human minds and computer programs are both symbol systems (Simon, 1980). Both re- ceive informational input, represent the information inter- nallyas formal symbols,andmanipulatethembylogicalrules to reach valid conclusions. Simon and Newell turned the notion into the pioneering computer simulation of thought, the General Problem Solver (Newell, Shaw, & Simon, 1958). Simon’s symbol-system hypothesis established the ﬁrst of the two architectures of cognition inspired by the analogy be- tween human being and computer, and it was ﬁrmly en- sconced in psychology and artiﬁcial intelligence by the late 1970s. It gave rise to the creation of a new discipline, cogni- tive science, devoted to the study of informavores, creatures that consume information (Pylyshyn, 1984). It brought to- gether cognitive psychologists, computer scientists, philoso- phers, and—especially in the 1990s, the decade of the brain— neuroscientists. (Space precludes a treatment of cognitive neuroscience. See Gazzinaga, Ivry, and Mangun [1998] for an excellent survey.)