## The International Association of Applied Psychology

The International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP) is the oldest international association of individual psycholo- gists. The archives of the IAAP were destroyed during World War II, so the full history of the early years of the association cannot be told. What is known is that in 1920, Edouard Claparède (1873–1940) and Pierre Bovet (1878–1965), of the Rousseau Institute in Geneva, Switzerland, organized the ﬁrst International Conference of Psychotechnics Applied to Vocational Guidance. Despite its impressive title, there were fewer than 50 conference participants. The conference was hastily arranged to coincide with the annual training course

in vocational guidance offered by the Swiss Association for Vocational Guidance and Apprentice Welfare (Gundlach, 1998). Vocational guidance was a new area for psychologists and educators in Europe and the United States. The concept was pioneered in the United States by attorney Frank Parsons (1854–1908) and experimental psychologist Hugo Münster- berg (1863–1916). In Europe, it formed a part of the bur- geoning ﬁeld of psychotechnics, in which the apparatus of experimental psychology laboratories were used to test voca- tional aptitude and to assist in the selection of personnel (van Drunen, 1997).

Although the number of participants was small, the papers were well received and it was decided to have a second, larger, congress the next year in Barcelona. Following this ﬁrst conference, the International Association of Psychotech- nics was founded with Claparède as its ﬁrst president, a post he held until his death in 1941. However, the actual legal incorporation was not until 1927, when the group merged with the International Association for Psychology and Psy- chotechnics (Gundlach, 1998). The name was changed to the International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP) in 1955 (Wilpert, 2000).

The association sponsored international meetings on an ir- regular basis until 1976, when an agreement was reached with the IUPsyS to hold congresses every fourth year on an alternating basis. The International Congresses of Applied Psychology are currently held every 4 years, 2 years after the preceding International Congress of Psychology, so there is a major international congress every 2 years.

At the beginning of the twenty-ﬁrst century, the IAAP had more than 2,000 members in over 90 countries. In 1978, the association began to organize its members into divisions that represent various ﬁelds of psychology; at the end of the twen- tieth century there were 14 such divisions. It was also in the late 1970s that the association began forming committees and task forces to implement its members’ initiatives. The mission of the IAAP is to advance scientiﬁc work in ap- plied psychology around the world. Its publications in the service of this mission include Applied Psychology: An Inter- national Review and the International Journal of Applied Psychology.