# 350 Clinical Psychology

with a nonpoisonous snake and encouraged to go as close as they could to it and, if they were willing, to pick it up. Each student completed a Fear Thermometer, a rating of how much fear was experienced. The therapy consisted of devising a hierarchy of imagined scenes involving snakes, with scenes arranged from neutral to the most fear arousing. Then the stu- dent was taught to relax, asked to imagine the least fear- arousing scene, asked to relax, and so on until the student became able to imagine scenes higher and higher in the hierarchy without feeling anxious, a procedure known as “systematic desensitization.” Finally the BAT and Fear Ther- mometer were readministered, and it was found that these students had become signiﬁcantly less afraid of snakes than randomly assigned students in a control group. Critics of such analogue studies noted that the results might have been less impressive had neurotic patients and their fears been tested.

Nevertheless, later research supported the effectiveness of desensitization procedures of various kinds in dealing with a variety of symptoms. For example, exposure with response prevention (allowing a patient to experience what happens when a compulsion is not permitted) is a kind of in vivo de- sensitization that has come to be regarded as appropriate in the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorders (Foa & Goldstein, 1978).

Another major behavioral approach to treatment is behav- ior modiﬁcation, or applied behavior analysis, which comes from the experimental work and writing of B. F. Skinner (1938).AlthoughSkinner’sexperimentalworkwasalmostex- clusively with animals, neither he nor his followers have been reluctant to apply his principles to humans, including clinical populations (Skinner, 1971). Sidney Bijou, who served as di- rector of clinical training when Skinner chaired the psychol- ogy department at Indiana University, pioneered in the use of operant conditioning with persons with mental retardation (Bijou, 1996).Applied behavior analysis has become a main- stay of psychological treatment of persons with mental retar- dation and pervasive developmental disorders such as autism. It has been used to teach social and self-help skills like dress- ing, toileting, and proper table manners, as well as dealing with deﬁant, aggressive, and self-injurious behaviors.

Nathan Azrin at Anna State Hospital in Illinois demon- strated the utility of behavior modiﬁcation with adult mental patients (Ayllon & Azrin, 1968) and the usefulness of token economies, in which the performance of desired behaviors earns tokens that can be exchanged for rewards (much as oc- curs in our society where money is given for work). Exten- sive research on token economies in mental hospitals was done by Gordon Paul and his colleagues (e.g., Paul & Lentz, 1977). Their research with long-term, regressed, and chronic

schizophrenics focused on developing such practical behav- iors as making their beds, behaving well at mealtime, partic- ipating in the classroom, and socializing with others during free time. Paul’s research showed that his program of behav- ior therapy and milieu therapy (moral treatment) improved symptoms when compared with the results of routine hospi- tal management, and that behavior therapy was more effec- tive than milieu therapy alone in bringing about the desired changes.

The principal assessment procedure advocated by Skin- nerians is the functional analysis of behavior: a determination of what may be rewarding or maintaining undesirable behav- iors and what may serve to reward or establish the perfor- mance of behaviors that are desired. A functional analysis requires observation, preferably in the setting where the behaviors are to be modiﬁed, in order to assess the frequency of their occurrence and their consequences. Gerald Patterson (1974) pioneered in the use of direct behavioral observations in natural settings to record the behavior of aggressive chil- dren and their families in their homes. His research led to a theory of coercion in which the child is seen as both the de- terminer and victim of episodes of escalating violence in the family and to controlled research on the behavioral treatment of child aggression.

Another major category of behavior therapy is cognitive therapy or cognitive behavior therapy. Two pioneers in this area were George A. Kelly and Albert Ellis. Kelly (1955) viewed his clients as resembling scientists in their attempts to make sense of the world around them. He used a diagnostic procedure called the Role Construct Repertory Test to ascer- tain their beliefs about themselves and others. The therapist then negotiated with the client about what changes might be desired and how these could be accomplished. Using ﬁxed role therapy, the client was encouraged to rehearse or play- act the new role, ﬁrst with the therapist, then with others. Albert Ellis (1958) developed rational emotive therapy; here the patient’s opinions and attitudes are explored for irrational beliefs (“I can’t make a mistake and must be perfect. My feel- ings are out of my control”), which the therapist then at- tempts to make more reasonable and rational.

Martin Seligman (1975) stimulated much research on the treatment of depression. Based upon previous research with dogs that were prevented from avoiding or escaping an elec- tric shock, he noted that when they were in a situation where the shock could not be avoided, such animals simply gave up and endured the pain. They had learned to be helpless, and perhaps, he reasoned, the same process of ineffectiveness and feeling unable to cope occurred among humans who were depressed. This had obvious treatment implications, but fur- ther study indicated the need for the concept of attribution

(Abramson, Seligman, & Teasdale, 1978): Persons who are likely to become depressed attribute their failures to their own personality characteristics, while those who are not at risk for depression attribute failures to external, transitory, speciﬁc circumstances. Accordingly, the cognitive therapist might help a person to be less depressed by coming to see how failures occur in certain situations and dealing with those events more effectively.

Cognitive behavior therapy for treating panic disorders in- volves teaching the patient to interpret symptoms of acute anxiety as relatively harmless rather than as indications of a pending heart attack or psychotic episode (Craske, Brown, & Barlow, 1991). This was found to be more beneﬁcial than treatment with the anti-anxiety drug Xanax (alprazolam). More recently, Marsha Linehan (1993) developed a proce- dure, called dialectical behavior therapy, that shows promise in the treatment of borderline personality disorder.

Social learning is yet another major approach in behavior therapy, which owes much to the work of Albert Bandura (1977). The emphasis here is on learning that occurs without obvious rewards, as when we learn what to do by observing theconsequencesofbehaviorsperformedbyothers(vicarious learning); or when we imitate the behaviors of those we like, respect, or admire (modeling); or when we have internalized values and standards and reward or punish ourselves for our successes or failures in living up to them, a self-regulating process.

Susan Mineka and her colleagues (Mineka, Davidson, Cook, & Keir, 1984) demonstrated the acquisition of fears in rhesus monkeys through vicarious or observational learning. When adolescent monkeys were allowed to watch their par- ents, who had an intense fear of snakes, interact with toy snakes and real ones, they soon exhibited the same fear, even though they did not do so originally. Even at a 3-month follow-up, the fear was strongly evident. Similarly, much research was devoted to the consequences of watching violence in movies and television, particularly for produc- ing antisocial, aggressive behaviors in children, which are to lead to such behaviors in adulthood (Huesmann, apt Eron, Lefkowitz, & Walder, 1984). A ﬁnal example, Peter Lewinsohn’s research (Lewinsohn, 1975, 1988; Teri & Lewinsohn, 1986), demonstrated a correlation between de- pression and a reduced number of rewards: Losses of any and every kind are risk factors for depression and frequently involve losses of rewards, and a depressed person is less affected by and is less apt to engage in behaviors that elicit social rewards. By helping the person to perform behaviors that generate social rewards, the depression can be alleviated. Behavioral approaches in treatment have obviously in- creased rapidly in number and applications. It was not until