# ANTONIO E. PUENTE

During the early 1980s, I participated in a symposium at the Southeastern Psychological Association in Atlanta, Georgia. The well-attended symposium topic was ethnic-minorities in psychology. However, I felt very much out of place since the other speakers were African American and only one other Hispanic was in the audience. In many respects, this sympo- sium represented not only my own personal feelings about being an ethnic-minority in psychology but how psychology and North American society viewed ethnicity as well. There appears to have been a misunderstanding or a limited deﬁni- tion of what ethnicity is. In general, ethnicity has been de- ﬁned primarily, if not exclusively, and historically using race and, in many instances, the focus has been African Ameri- cans. Obviously, this approach is biased and not representa- tive of the population that psychology seeks to understand and serve.

Using the latest U.S. Census Bureau data (2001), Hispan- ics now comprise the largest and fastest growing ethnic- minority segment in the United States. African Americans now comprise 12.3% of the population and Hispanics com- prise 12.5% of the U.S. residents (and that ﬁgure is probably conservative due the limited counting of illegal aliens). If current census projections turn out to be correct, sometime during this century, Hispanics will comprise the largest single group in the United States. Conceivably, then, Hispanics could represent the majority group culture, at least in terms of population.

Is psychology ready for this paradigm shift? The answer is unequivocally no. The reasons why the ﬁeld is not ready for this demographic change lie in the history of psychology. The total number of Hispanics who have received PhDs in psychology not only represents a very small portion of psy- chology, but represents a relatively small portion of ethnic- minorities. According to the 1999 to 2000 ﬁgures available from the American Psychological Association, Hispanics comprise approximately 5% of both doctoral and masters level graduate students. And, those that do gain admittance into doctorate programs often do not obtain the necessary training to compete adequately in either the academic or clinical spheres of psychology (Vazquez, 1991). Further- more, the total number of faculty members of Hispanic origin is similarly low—less than 10%.

If one were to examine the governance of APA, the num- bers are disproportionately even smaller. For example, no

Hispanic has ever served on its board of directors. Only three ethnic minorities have been president of APA in its 110-year history; Richard Suinn (2000), Logan Wright (1986), and Kenneth B. Clark (1971). Even in the only APAdivision jour- nal focusing on ethnicity, Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychology, only 20% of the entire editorial board (approximately 100) have Spanish-surnames.

This situation is further mirrored in how we have chroni- cled the history of psychology. For example, in The American Psychological Association: A Historical Perspective (Evans, Sexton, & Cadwallader, 1992), no mention is made of Hispanics in any section of the book. Even in my own book Teaching Psychology in America: A History (Puente, little reference is made to Matthews, & Brewer 1992), Hispanics. In other scholarly books as well as textbooks in the history of psychology, including Boring, Brennan, Hilgard, Leahey, Schultz and Schultz, and Wertheimer no mention is found in the Contents or the Indices of contributions by Hispanics to psychology.

The assumption held by many is that the major, if not the only difference, between mainstream society and Hispanics is that of language. But language is only one aspect of Hispanic culture, there is heterogeneity of Hispanics. A Cuban is quite different from a Puerto Rican who is quite different from a Mexican. Each subgroup has distinct cultural characteristics, heritage, and behavioral patterns. As a consequence, Hispan- ics need to be understood within their speciﬁc cultural context (Shorris, 1992). Other issues also play a role. These include the importance of family (especially of extended family), religion, social context and rules (including the limited trust placed on those outside the family or a circle of friends), the appreciation of time (rather than conquering it), the value of living (rather than just working), and a greater emphasis on cooperation (rather than competition).