---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a986c5d69cf1f7e77589c12ba2abaae84e831de5
title: untitled
---
# 452 Health Psychology

the eyes without the head, nor the head without the body, so neither it is proper to cure the body without the soul.” Aristotle, in 350 B.C., observed how emotions like joy, fear, anger, and courage affect the body, thus linking bodily processes to emotional states (Gentry & Matarazzo, 1981; Lipsitt, 1999). However, it was the Greek physician Hippocrates (460–377 B.C.), often called the father of modern medicine, who proposed a humoral theory of illness later ex- panded by Galen (A.D. 129–199). This was a hydraulic model that postulated that disease would result from the imbalance of four bodily ﬂuids or humors—blood, black bile, yellow bile, and phlegm (Lipowski, 1986). Galen proposed four per- sonality types based on the predominance of one of the four humors (choleric, melancholic, sanguine, and phlegmatic); these types permeated European personality theories for cen- turies thereafter. In sum, the ancient Greeks believed that mind and body were part of one system, that a balance be- tween physical and emotional states was fundamental to health, and that psychological factors could inﬂuence bodily functions or even cause disease.

Lyons and Petrucelli (1978) describe a Greek legend that illustrates the role of behavior and balance in health and ill- ness. According to this myth, Zeus, the chief Olympian god, brought the healer Asclepius into the heavens because of his healing abilities. Asclepius became a half-god and had two famous daughters, Hygeia and Panacea. Hygeia was the god- dess of health and prevention; she taught the Greeks they could be healthy if they were moderate in all forms of behav- ior. Panacea was the goddess of medicine; she represented the continuous search for treatment of all illnesses (cited by Maes & Van Elderen, 1998, p. 591). These views were adopted by Roman physicians and inﬂuenced Greek and Roman healing practices that included medical and psycho- logical approaches such as exercise, massage, music, a warm and soothing atmosphere, and the like.

In the MiddleAges, a holistic view of mind–body relation- ships was reﬂected in the supernatural view of causality and treatment, but holism began losing credibility as the separa- tion between church and state became more evident and med- ical views of illness emerged. With this separation also came the belief that mind and body were separate entities, or what is known as dualism. During the Renaissance, the philoso- pher Descartes (1596–1650) proposed what is now referred to as Cartesian dualism: the premise that mind and body are separate entities and that the explanations for bodily pro- cesses are to be found in the body itself. By emphasizing the materialism of the body, Cartesian dualism de-emphasized the importance of emotions in health (Lipsitt, 1999).

The development of physical medicine consolidated a du- alistic approach that then became the predominant model for

medical science and practice in much of Western civilization. The work of the Dutch physician Vesalius in the 1500s marked the development of science in anatomy and physiol- ogy, highlighting the importance of the scientiﬁc method and experimentation. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek’s work on microscopy and Giovanni Morgagni’s advances in autopsy both contributed to the discrediting of the humoral theory (Kaplan, 1975). In England, in 1628, William Harvey used the objective scien- tiﬁc method to disprove the humoral theory by identifying that blood circulates in the body and is propelled by the heart (Gatchel, 1993).

During the eighteenth century, progress was made in understanding relationships between physical reactions and psychological phenomena. Heart rate and temperature were measured with increased sophistication, and pathways be- tween bodily secretions and emotional reactions were identi- ﬁed. Although biomedical reductionism seemed to bury unitary views of mind–body relationships, the active in- gredients in the clinical practice of medicine were actually primarily psychological ones (Matarazzo, 1994). In 1747, a professor of medicine wrote that “the reason why a sound body becomes ill, or an ailing body recovers, very often lies in the mind” (Gaub, cited in Lipowski, 1977, p. 234).

In the nineteenth century, the role of psychological factors in illness revived, giving rise to a new holistic movement and paving the way for the psychosomatic medicine movement. The prominent physician Claude Bernard emphasized the role of psychological factors in physical illness (Gatchel, 1993), and the psychiatrist Heinroth, in Germany, is said to have been the ﬁrst to use the term “psychosomatic” (Lipsitt, 1999). In the United States, Benjamin Rush (1746–1813), considered the father of American psychiatry, wrote the ﬁrst textbook on the treatment of mental illness (Rush, 1812), but he also asserted that “actions of the mind” could cause many illnesses. In 1812, he also founded the American Medico- Psychological Association, which later became the American Psychiatric Association.

In Europe, the antecessors of the psychodynamic ap- proach, Austrian physician Franz Mesmer and Parisian neu- rologist Jean Martin Charcot, reported several instances of hysterical states in which physical symptoms had no med- ical explanation and could be induced or removed by hypnosis. These observations deﬁed the biomedical reduc- tionism that dominated medical science in the late eigh- teenth and early nineteenth centuries. However, it was Freud’s theories about hysterical conversion as the expres- sion of repressed instinctual impulses that inspired the ﬁeld of psychosomatic inquiry, which then blossomed in the fol- lowing 50 years.

In other developments, the change in 1889 of William James’s title from professor of philosophy to professor of psychology at Harvard marked the beginning of a new era for the discipline of psychology; thought and feeling had be- come a major focus for intensive scientiﬁc study. In addi- tion, two independent researchers were conducting work in psychophysiology that was to become seminal in the ﬁeld. Walter Bradford Cannon investigated visceral aspects of emotional experiences (speciﬁcally adrenaline and the ex- citement of the sympathetic nervous system), inventing the term “homeostasis” to describe the balanced state that human physiology sought to maintain (Cannon, 1915). In Russia, Ivan Pavlov received a Nobel Prize in 1904 for his work on the conditioned reﬂex and the physiology of the digestive gland, work that had profound implications for un- derstanding learning processes and the development of psy- chophysiological disorders. His work led to the development in Russia of what was named “cortical-visceral-medicine,” which has some overlap with psychosomatic medicine but leaves out subjective dimensions of experience and the unconscious processes (Lipsitt, 1999). Thus, by 1900, forces within medicine, physiology, and psychology had re- vived an integrated perspective of health and illness, mind and body.

Meanwhile, psychoanalysis spread in popularity in both Europe and the United States. Adolph Meyer, a Swiss psy- chiatrist, moved to Johns Hopkins in 1910 and continued to build on the concept of holism (derived from the Greek holos, or “whole”), introduced by Jan Christian Smuts in 1926 (Lipowski, 1986). Meyer proposed a new ﬁeld of study, psy- chobiology, as the study of the person as a whole and not just the disease. Mind and body were seen as separate but inte- grated parts constituting a psychobiological unit (Meyer, 1957). This work helped bridge the gap between psychiatry and the other medical specialties, laying the foundation for the development of psychosomatic medicine and liaison psychiatry (Lipsitt, 1999).
