---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 74b9cc46d4737bbb5a28a9072076074cacde70f7
title: untitled
---
# EARLY HISTORY

Humans have a long history of interest in animal behavior. Perhaps the ﬁrst evidence of this is from the cave paintings depicting animals in southern Europe dating from the Upper Paleolithic period, 35,000 to 10,000 years before the present. Domestication of animals began about 11,500 years ago in the Middle East and Asia (Singer, 1981). Among the ancient Greeks, Herodotus (c. 425 B.C.) described habits and behav- ior of animals and made observations on animal physiology. Interest in animals was brought to a new level by Aristotle (384–322 B.C.). He relied on observation and inductive rea- soning, not just speculation, to develop a natural history of many species. Aristotle believed in the continuity of species, though he believed species to be ﬁxed rather than evolving. He also proposed the notion of a Scala naturae, a single di- mension along which all species could be ordered. Although this idea, transformed from dealing with the characteristics of the animals’ souls to their level of intelligence, is still popu- lar today, it is widely regarded as fallacious. Evolution is branching, and species do not lie along a single continuum. During the long period from the ancient Greeks to the mid-nineteenth century, interest in animal behavior was strong in three areas. Such individuals as Frederick II of Hohenstaufen (1194–1250), John Ray (1627–1705), and Charles George Leroy (1723–1757), studied animal behavior in nature and developed the area of natural history. Asecond area was applied animal behavior, where domestication and selective breeding of livestock, dogs, and other species con- tinued and was perfected. Falconers developed remarkable skills in the control of behavior (Mountjoy, 1980).

Finally, the relation between human and nonhuman animals became an area of interest to philosophers. The seventeenth-century French philosopher René Descartes is credited with popularizing the view that there is an absolute gulf between humans and all other species. According to Descartes, humans are the only ones to possess the immate- rial rational soul that enables abstract reasoning and self- awareness; animals are automata that can carry on simple mental functions but cannot think or have language. Darwin’s work would discredit this dichotomy. An interesting di- chotomy developed between the British and continental

philosophers regarding the developmental origins of ideas. British philosophers such as John Locke and David Hume be- lievedthatallknowledgeoriginatedinexperience.ForLocke, themindwasatabularasa,orblankslate.Continentalphiloso- phers,suchasImmanuelKant,proposedtheexistenceofanac- tivemindwithaprioriproperties,suchascategories,thatacted on experience to produce knowledge. This geographic differ- ence can be seen in contrasting the British and continental ap- proachesto theﬁeld of ethologyin thetwentiethcentury.
