---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 01dd5881146bde59d0786f3e27192614c3ba1f0e
title: untitled
---
# 182 Personality

landmark study, The Polish Peasant in Europe and America, which was based on letters and autobiographical material. Promoting the use of empirical methods, the study served as a model for sociologists at the University of Chicago, the most inﬂuential institution in sociology in the 1920s and 1930s (Bulmer, 1984). Following Thomas’s departure from Chicago in 1918, other prominent members of the sociology department, including Robert E. Park, Ernest W. Burgess, Clifford R. Shaw, and Herbert Blumer, continued to promote case studies and life histories (Bulmer, 1984), extending their inﬂuence through the Social Science Research Council (SSRC); we discuss these developments in a later section. Examples of works by Chicago sociologists include Shaw’s (1930) The Jack-Roller: A Delinquent Boy’s Own Story and Krueger’s (1925) dissertation on autobiographical docu- ments and personality.

A debate concerning the relative merits of case study and statistical methods during this period reﬂected sociologists’ growing interest in quantitative methods, partly a result of their collaboration with researchers in neighboring disci- plines, such as economics and psychology. Psychologist L. L. Thurstone, for example, was an important inﬂuence on such sociologists as Samuel Stouffer (1930), who became a propo- nent of statistical methods in sociology (Bulmer, 1984). The debate was a frequent topic of meetings of the Society for So- cial Research, an “integral part” of the Chicago sociology de- partment composed of faculty and graduate students engaged in serious research (p. 114). Although Chicago sociologists were at the center of the debate, those at other institutions also participated (see, e.g., Bain, 1929; Lundberg, 1926).

According to Platt, the debate was a “hot” issue from the 1920s until the Second World War (1996, p. 36; see also Ross, 1991). During the 1930s, members of the Chicago so- ciology department demonstrated their allegiance to one method or the other at their student-faculty picnic, “where baseball sides were picked on the basis of case study versus statistics” (Platt, 1996, pp. 45–46). Bulmer (1984) notes, however, that an “emphasis on the complementarity of research methods was characteristic of the Chicago school” (p. 121) and that several participants in the debate actually advocated the use of both approaches. During this period many sociologists hoped to discover general laws by com- paring and classifying individual cases, and this view eventu- ally contributed to a blurring of the distinction between case study and statistical methods (Platt, 1992). Burgess (1927) compared sociologists’ increasing interest in quantitative methods with psychologists’ “heroic efforts to become more scientiﬁc, that is to say, statistical” (p. 108); in contrast, he noted that social workers and psychiatrists had introduced the case study method into social science.

Sociologists’ use of case studies was derived in part from
