data/clean/untitled__chunk3045.md, before:

# National Psychological Associations 543

through a governing board, which was empowered to do busi- ness on behalf of the society. From its inception to the time of this writing, the society has succeeded remarkably well in keeping its governance simple and maintaining its focus as a hard-nosed scientiﬁc psychological organization.

The Psychonomic Society experienced rapid growth. Its membership standards were the PhD and a record of success- ful publication beyond the degree. Ironically, these were the standards for APA membership prior to 1926 (Fernberger, 1932). Although membership requirements have varied slightly over the years, including the development of an asso- ciate membership, the basic requirements have changed little. The membership total at the end of the ﬁrst year was 772. That number rose steadily over the years and had stabilized at approximately 2,000 members by the 1990s. Associate mem- bership also grew from its inception in 1975 to between 400 and 500 during the 1990s.

At the end of the twentieth century, the Psychonomic Society published six major experimental psychology jour- nals. Journal publication had been one of the two primary purposes of the society at its founding, but it took several years before the society was able to begin its publishing pro- gram. It was able to do so through the generosity of one of its founders, Clifford T. Morgan. Morgan began a journal, Psy- chonomic Science, in 1964. This was followed in relatively quick succession by Psychonomic Monograph Supplements (1965) and Perception & Psychophysics (1966). In 1967, Morgan gave the journals to the Psychonomic Society. The society initially struggled with its management of the jour- nals but by the mid-1970s had overcome most of its publica- tion problems. The society split Psychonomic Science into four volumes and added others, so that by 2000 it published AnimalLearning&Behavior,BehaviorResearchMethods,In- struments,&Computers,Memory&Cognition,Perception& Psychophysics, Psychobiology, and Psychonomic Bulletin & Review(Dewsbury,1996).

Other experimental societies have formed over the years in reaction to the size or policies of the APA. To note one other example, the Society of Experimental Social Psychol- ogy formed in 1965 to promote scientiﬁc communication among those social psychologists that viewed themselves as experimentalists. A small group of social psychologists de- cried the large meetings of the APA and the rapid growth of its Division 8 (Personality and Social Psychology). They, like the founders of the Psychonomic Society, wanted a society whose members were experimentalists. The initial intent of the group was to keep the society small in number. That pol- icy has been maintained, as indicated by its membership of only 600 by the year 2000 (Blascovich, 2000; Hollander, 1968).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk3045.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3d0ec036a2f3d8dbcca0315a3ac86473e2e8a15d
title: untitled
---
# Scientiﬁc Organizations

Although theAPAwas organized to promote psychology as a science, from its inception there have been those who be- lieved that it was not scientiﬁc enough. This has given rise over the ensuing decades to numerous societies, both formal and informal, that sought to create organizations devoted solely to science. Lightner Witmer (1867–1956) tried in 1898 to organize a small group of experimental psychologists to meet independently of theAPA(Goodwin, 1985). E. B.Titch- ener (1867–1927) successfully formed an alternative group in 1904. Although not legally formalized in his lifetime, “The Experimentalists,” as they came to be called, did meet Titch- ener’s desire to have a psychological club whose members could discuss their version of psychological science in a mas- culine, smoky, atmosphere (Boring, 1967; Goodwin, 1985). After Titchener’s death in 1927, the club members reorga- nized into the Society of Experimental Psychologists (SEP). Women were admitted for the ﬁrst time, and the membership limit was set at 50. The SEP was incorporated in 1936. Over the years, membership requirements have been slightly mod- iﬁed;mostnotablythelimithasbeenraised,sothattherewere 197 fellows in 2000 (Hurvich, 2000). The SEP continued to be primarily concerned with its maintenance as an organiza- tion devoted to science, although its members contributed to the application of psychology during both world wars.

For some younger psychologists in the mid-1930s, neither the APAnor the SEP was experimental enough. This younger group loosely organized themselves in 1936 under the name “Society of Experimenting Psychologists” (Benjamin, 1977;

Hardcastle, 2000). The name was a jab at the SEP, many of whom were no longer actively engaged in experimental re- search. The name was later changed to the Psychological Round Table (PRT) in order to avert professional retaliation from the senior members of the SEP. Like “The Experimen- talists” before them, the members of PRT found the APA meetings too bureaucratic and too inclusive of nonexperi- mental psychology. They were also excluded from member- ship in the SEP. The PRT organizers created a small group based at universities in the eastern United States who met an- nually to talk about research and socialize. Women were ini- tially excluded. Once a member reached the age of 40, he could no longer participate in the meetings. As a result, mem- bership was never large and the group was never formally in- corporated. Nevertheless, the PRT served as an important communication network in American experimental psychol- ogy for many years.

Dissatisfaction with the annual meetings of the APA provided the impetus for the formation of the Psychonomic Society in December 1959. In that sense, the Psychonomic Society is heir to the tradition inaugurated by Titchener and continued by the Psychological Round Table. Apparently, the experimentalists’dissatisfactions had been growing for years so that by the late 1950s there was a perception that the APA was catering to the interests of psychologists in professional practice (Dewsbury & Bolles, 1995). The proximal stimulus for the formation of the group was the decision by the APA Board of Convention Affairs in 1959, later reversed, that no one could use slides as part of his or her presentation. This, for many experimentalists, was the last piece of evidence needed that the APA convention was not about scientiﬁc communication.

A small group of psychologists went to work over the summer of 1959 to drum up support for a new, more science- oriented society. Led by William Verplanck (b. 1916) and Clifford Morgan (1915–1976), an organizing committee began meeting to form the new society. When letters of invi- tation sent out to members of the APAscience divisions indi- cated that there was more than adequate interest for such a society, the organizing committee met in late 1959 and de- veloped by-laws to govern the as-yet unnamed society (Dewsbury & Bolles, 1995). The name Psychonomic Society was agreed on in early 1960, and the society was incorpo- rated in April of that year.

The purposes of the society were two: to conduct an an- nual meeting to exchange research results and to develop a journal to publish the results. In terms of structure, the Psy- chonomic Society was the anti-APA. The group refused to develop the bureaucratic machinery they disliked in the larger association. Instead, they chose to govern their affairs
