---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: fa80fa99a6559bc06c7bd5d42fc274f1f91ab883
title: untitled
---
# Individual Lives and Individual Differences: The Multidisciplinary Study of Personality (1900–1930) 179

largely due to the prevailing belief that “personality quite suddenly became a ﬁeld in the middle of the 1930s” (Sanford, 1985, p. 492). In fact, psychologists developed an interest in personality much earlier, and their methodological choices, shaped by developments within the broader ﬁeld of psychol- ogy and in the larger culture, inﬂuenced the ﬁeld in impor- tant ways (Danziger, 1990, 1997; Parker, 1991; Shermer, 1985). In our own historical review of the ﬁeld (Winter & Barenbaum, 1999), we argue that early research in personal- ity reveals a tension between two central tasks of personality psychology—“the study of individual differences” and “the study of individual persons as unique, integrated wholes” (p. 6; emphasis in original)—and that the individual differ- ences approach was already well-established in psychological studies of personality by the time the subﬁeld of personality psychology was institutionalized in the 1930s. Here, we examine in more detail aspects of this formative period that contributed to the predominance of the psychometric ap- proach and to personality psychologists’ambivalence regard- ing intensive studies of individual lives. We suggest that personality psychologists’ attitudes toward case studies and life histories were inﬂuenced by work not only in psychology but also in neighboring disciplines that adopted alternative investigative practices. In particular, we compare the recep- tion of case studies and life histories in psychiatry, sociology, and psychology during the early decades of the twentieth century.

To illustrate the lasting effects of these methodological choices, we trace the efforts of Allport and Murray to pro- mote the study of individual lives in personality psychology, and we examine psychologists’ responses to their work. Finally, we reconsider the question of the historical course of personality psychologists’ ambivalence regarding the study of individual lives and suggest an interpretation of the revival of interest in case studies, life histories, and psy- chobiography in recent years. Rather than simply document- ing the history of case studies and life histories in personality psychology, we focus in this chapter on contextual factors shapingAmerican personality psychologists’attitudes toward these methods. Our account builds upon a number of earlier sources: historical reviews of case studies (e.g., Bromley, 1986;Forrester,1996;McAdams&West,1997),lifehistories and psychobiography (e.g., Bertaux, 1981; McAdams, 1988; Plummer, 1983; Runyan, 1982, 1988b, 1997); handbook chapters on the history of personality theories and research (e.g., McAdams, 1997; Pervin, 1990; Winter & Barenbaum, 1999); and historical studies of the early development of per- sonalitypsychology(Burnham,1968a;Danziger,1990,1997; Nicholson, 1996, 1997, 1998, 2000; Parker, 1991; Shermer, 1985).

INDIVIDUAL LIVES AND INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES: THE MULTIDISCIPLINARY STUDY OF PERSONALITY (1900–1930)

Gordon Allport’s (1921) review of “personality” research, generally considered the ﬁrst of its kind in an American psy- chologicaljournal,was“anearlyindicationthatthiswordwas beginningtohaveatechnicalmeaning”(Parker,1991,p.113). Other indicators of institutional recognition (such as publica- tion trends in journals and textbooks, contents of professional meetings,andchangesinacademiccurricula)begantoemerge duringthemid-1920s,andpersonalityresearch“becamearel- atively secure specialty area in American psychology by the mid-1930s” (Parker, 1991, p. 164; see also Burnham, 1968a). In the following section we discuss the broader cultural con- text that inﬂuenced the emergence of the new subﬁeld.
