---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8624f94062e06eaed60e013c4c9d22077e1dfda4
title: untitled
---
# Physiology and Perception 95

It was Müller’s students who would take the next steps. In addition to his writing and research, Müller was a splendid teacher who attracted many brilliant students. Among these was Hermann Helmholtz (1821–1895), who played a pivotal roleinthishistory,andhisclassmatesÉmileduBois-Reymond (1818–1896), who later collaborated with Helmholtz and gained fame by establishing the electrochemical nature of the nervous impulse; Rudolf Virchow (1821–1902), who later pi- oneered the cellular theory of pathology; and Ernst Brücke (1819–1893), whowouldlaterdoworkontheinteractions be- tween color and brightness but who would be best known as the most inﬂuential teacher of Sigmund Freud.Together these students rejectedtheidea thattherewasanylife forcethatwas so mysterious that it could not be analyzed, and so different thatitdidnotfollowtheknowrulesofphysicsandphysiology. Asarebellionagainstvitalism,theydrewupasolemnarticleof faith in themechanisticviewpoint,whichstated that

No other forces than the common physical-chemical ones are active within the organism. In those cases which cannot at the time be explained by these forces one has either to ﬁnd the spe- ciﬁc way or form of their action by means of the physical math- ematical method, or to assume new forces equal in dignity to the physical-chemical forces inherent in mater, reducible to the force of attraction and repulsion. (Bernfeld, 1949, p. 171)

Then, with the passion generated by youthful fervor for a cause, they each signed the declaration with a drop of their own blood. It is ironic, in some ways, that a blood oath, so common in mysticism and magical rites, would be the begin- ning of a movement to purge spirits, demons, spirits, and the soul from psychology.

The full implications of speciﬁc nerve energies were not immediately apparent, but this idea would come to change the natureofperceptualresearch.In1844,Natansonmadetheob- vious mechanistic extension when he argued that every neural organ must have a function and conversely every function must have an organ. In sensory terms, he thought that there might be three different energies for touch, three for taste, three for vision, and an indeterminate number for smell. In that same year, A. W. Volmann attempted to criticize Müller on the ground that his theory would require not merely ﬁve speciﬁc energies but one for every sense-quality. This might require different channels for pressure, temperature, pain, every one of the 2,000 recognizable colors, every discrim- inable taste, and so forth.At the time, this seemed like almost a reductio ad absurdum, since it seemed to require an inﬁnity of speciﬁc channels for the inﬁnity of speciﬁc perceived sen- sory qualities. However, a solution would show itself.
