# 288 Assessment Psychology

measured by the amount of accurate detail in a young per- son’s drawing of a human ﬁgure. The Draw-a-Man was later revised by Harris (1963), who suggested having respondents draw pictures of a woman and of themselves, in addition to drawing a man, and expanded Goodenough’s scoring system and standardization. Most recently the Goodenough-Harris was further updated by Naglieri (1988) to include representa- tive norms for assessing cognitive development in young people age 5 to 17.

The Draw-a-Man was adapted for purposes of personality assessment by Karen Machover (1902–1996), who in 1948 rechristened the measure as the Draw-a-Person (DAP) and introduced the notion that human ﬁgure drawings convey in symbolic ways aspects of a respondent’s underlying needs, attitudes, conﬂicts, and concerns. She believed that for per- sons of all ages and not just children, signiﬁcant meaning can be attached to structural features of drawings (e.g., where ﬁg- ures are placed on the page) and the manner in which various parts of the body are drawn (e.g., a disproportionately large head). Whereas Machover’s approach to DAP interpretation consisted of qualitative hypotheses concerning the symbolic signiﬁcance of ﬁgure drawing characteristics, subsequent developments that were focused mainly on reﬁning this in- strument for use in evaluating young people provided quanti- tative scoring schemes for the instrument. Notable among these were a formulation of 30 speciﬁc indicators of emo- tional disturbance (Koppitz, 1968) and the construction of a Screening Procedure for Emotional Disturbance (SPED; Naglieri, McNeish, & Bardos, 1991). The DAP-SPED is an actuarially derived and normatively based system comprising 55 scorable items and intended as a screening test for classi- fying young people age 6 to 17 with respect to their likeli- hood of having adjustment difﬁculties that call for further evaluation.

Particular interest in the assessment of young people was reﬂected in several other variations of Goodenough’s original method, two of which have become fairly widely used. One of these is the House-Tree-Person (HTP) test devised by Buck (1948), in which children are asked to draw a picture of a house and a tree as well as a person, in the expectation that drawings of all three objects provide symbolic representa- tions of important aspects of a young person’s world. The other is the Kinetic Family Drawing (KFD) formalized by Burns and Kaufman (1970), in which respondents are in- structed to draw a picture of their whole family, including themselves, doing something.

Also of note is a commonly used procedure suggested by Machover in which people taking any of these ﬁgure drawing tests are asked in addition to make up a story about the peo- ple they have drawn or to answer speciﬁc questions about

them (e.g., “What is this person like?”). When this procedure is followed, ﬁgure drawings take on some of the characteris- tics of picture-story techniques, and, like picture stories, they are despite recent efforts at quantiﬁcation most commonly in- terpreted in practice by an inspection technique in which per- sonality characteristics are inferred primarily from subjective impressions of noteworthy or unusual features of the ﬁgures drawn. As a consequence, ﬁgure drawings remain a largely unvalidated assessment method that has remained popular despite having thus far shown limited psychometric sound- ness (see Handler, 1995).