# Transiting the Modern to Postmodern Era

more epistemological and ontological matters facing social psychology, querying everything from what constituted science in social psychology to more ontological concerns. In addressing priorities and paradigms, the conference volume accorded with then current views on Kuhnian notions of par- adigm shifts and with a more profound concern about what constituted the human. Additional signposts are found in works addressing psychology as a “moral science of action” (e.g., Shotter, 1975), revisiting phenomena through frame- works of the sociology of knowledge, as discussed in an ear- lier section (e.g., Buss, 1979), and critically engaging the reﬂexive nature of the ﬁeld—that is, how “psychology helps to constitute sociopsychological reality [and] . . . is itself constituted by social process and psychological reality” (Gadlin & Rubin, 1979, pp. 219–220). The ﬁeld’s growing recognition of its cultural and historical relativity pointed time and again to how social psychologists need to contend with a subject and with subject matters that are for all intents and purposes more historical, cultural, social, and political than not (e.g., Strickland, 2001).

One could think of these shifts in social psychology as working out the critical lines of its crisis, from a focus on “bias”throughtothesociologyofsocialpsychologicalknowl- edge and social construction to more recent formulations of a critical sociohistorical grounding of social psychological worlds. But this would be a mistake. Questions of the human, science, epistemology, the social, and the psychological each openedinturnappreciationofhowthe“crisis”residedlessin- side of psychology than with practices and institutions of “western intellectual life” (Parker & Shotter, 1991). In what followed, the scientiﬁc laboratory in psychology as in other sciences was revealed to be anything but ahistorical, context- less, or culture free—the place of a “culture of no culture” (Haraway, 1997), as were notions of scientiﬁc objectivity as a “view from nowhere” (Nagel, 1986). One consequence of these examinations has been an increase in epistemological exploration almost unimagined during crisis conversations, ones as much concerned with how to warrant our claims to social psychological knowledge as with how to think through what counts as human and “for which ways of life” (Haraway, 1997; Smith, 1997; see also Bayer, 1999a).

Of course, these very rethinkings and redoings of the science of psychology have often served as lightening rods within the ﬁeld for acting out contentious views and divisive- ness. But when they are constructive interchange, they offer productive signs of hope. Particularly interesting is how these very reworkings ﬁnd their way, though often unacknowl- edged and modiﬁed, across this great divide, evidencing their inﬂuence and implied presence as more central to social psy- chology’s conventional directions than consciously wished.

239