---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: af44cfbb093ac4b6874e0210a3107818fd70c5df
title: untitled
---
# Areas Addressed by the Briefs

The past several decades, academic psychologists and psy- chological organizations, such as theAmerican Psychological Association (APA), have been increasingly involved in the submission of “friend of the court” briefs to the courts on scientiﬁc issues. Science-translation briefs were submitted in cases involving gay rights (Watkins v. United States Army, 1988), “hypnotically-refreshed” testimony (Rock v.Arkansas, 1987), abortion (Thornburgh v. American College of Physi- cians and Surgeons, 1986), jury size (Ballew v. Georgia, 1978), prediction of dangerousness (Barefoot v. Estelle, 1983), treatment of mentally ill individuals (Cleburne Living Center, Inc. v. City of Cleburne, Texas, 1985), and gender stereotyping (Price Waterhouse v. Hopkins, 1989).

In Bowers v. Hardwick (1986), a case challenging sodomy statutes that criminalized certain sexual behaviors, the APA, in collaboration with the American Public Health Associa- tion, contributed an amicus brief containing a great deal of scientiﬁc and clinical data indicating that there was no evidence that homosexuality or method of intercourse is pathological in and of itself. The brief also noted the possible harmful psychological effects of deterring such conduct. Nevertheless, in a 5–4 decision, the Supreme Court upheld the sodomy statutes. The Court held that the Constitution does not confer a fundamental right upon consenting homo- sexuals to engage in oral or anal intercourse in private. In

Bersoff’s words (1987, p. 57), this opinion “in its most favor- ablelight,canonlybedescribedasarchaic,medieval,andcal- lous. Research was ignored in favor of history and morality.” The Lockhart v. McCree (1986) case was especially inter- esting to many forensic psychologists because it seemed to be one in which psychological research ﬁndings might be taken very seriously by the U.S. Supreme Court. Two decades earlier, the Court had upheld the legality of the process of “death qualiﬁcation” in capital cases, in which potential ju- rors who had “scruples” against the death penalty (i.e., anti- death-penalty attitudes that would affect their ability to reach a guilty verdict, or would affect their willingness to ever vote for the death penalty) were automatically excluded from juries “for cause” (Witherspoon v. Illinois, 1968). In Witherspoon, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to rule that death-qualiﬁed juries were biased against defendants in the guilt process because the research data to that point, based upon just three empirical studies, were “tentative and frag- mentary.” The Court wrote that it might rule differently in the future if further research clearly demonstrated that death- qualiﬁed juries were not neutral with regard to guilt. In the two decades after the Witherspoon decision, a number of em- pirical psychological studies were carried out that appeared to clearly demonstrate that death-qualiﬁed juries were not neutral but were “conviction prone” (e.g., see Bersoff, 1987; Thompson 1989). The amicus brief submitted for the APA in Lockhart summarized the results of 15 empirical studies that led to the conclusions that: (a) death-qualiﬁed juries are con- viction prone; (b) dealth-qualiﬁed juries are unrepresentative, thereby threatening the defendant’s right to a jury composed of a fair cross-section of the community; and (c) death quali- ﬁcation interferes with the proper functioning of the jury.

In a narrow 5–4 decision, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the death qualiﬁcation process in Lockhart v. McCree (1986). Donald Bersoff, then general counsel for the APA, wrote that “it is now clear that even the most unassailable and method- ologically perfect evidence would not have convinced the majority.” But, he added,

even though the majority eventually concluded that the social science evidence was not germane to its decision, it did not ig- nore it either. It gave it a respectful hearing and, it must be said, echoed the objective critique APA provided in its amicus brief. The Court’s emphasis on the admitted lack of perfection in the studies was of far greater import to it, however, than it was to APA.
