data/clean/untitled__chunk1495.md, before:

# Frameworks for Studying Women and Gender

psychological inventories were constructed with masculinity and femininity as opposite ends of a single, bipolar contin- uum. The test format rendered them mutually exclusive. Con- stantinople argued against this built-in assumption, pointing out that an individual could embrace both masculine and fem- inine traits and behaviors. Going a step further, Sandra Bem (1974) argued that optimal psychological functioning and per- sonal adjustment required that an individual possess both masculine and feminine qualities, that is, embrace an androg- ynous sex-role identity. Bem designed the Bem Sex Role In- ventory, a scale of masculinity and femininity that permitted respondents to endorse both masculine and feminine attributes (or neither). Bem’s ideas, her inventory, and an alternate mea- sure of sex-related attributes, the Personal Attributes Ques- tionnaire (Spence & Helmreich, 1978) framed much feminist research, as well as feminist approaches to therapy, for the next several years.Although the ﬁeld has now moved beyond the conception of androgyny, the work in this era laid the foundation for subsequent theorizing on gender identity.

In the early 1980s, a new line of feminist inquiry emerged. Instead of pursuing comparisons of men and women, some researchers shifted their focus to women’s unique emotional capacities, identities, and relational needs. In a Different Voice (Gilligan, 1982) is a prominent example of this line of endeavor. By putting women at the center of inquiry, re- searchers could reexamine and reevaluate feminine qualities that had been ignored, disdained, or viewed as deﬁciencies or signs of immaturity. Gilligan’s initial investigations, for example, put forward the notion of a distinctive feminine mode of moral decision making, one that emphasized what she called an ethic of care.

Questions about male-female differences and similarities remain unresolved, even after many thousand empirical stud- ies. Hare-Mustin and Marecek (1990) used the terms alpha bias to indicate an inclination or tendency among some re- searchers to maximize differences and beta bias to indicate an inclination to minimize or overlook differences. They pointed out that the focus on gender-as-difference diverts at- tention away from a focus on gender as domination. That is, questions about the differences between men and women distract researchers from examining the power relations be- tween them and the way in which gender serves as a vehicle for distributing power and resources. In addition, the focus on male-female differences presumes that each gender is homogenous. It distracts attention from differences among women associated with ethnicity, class, age, and other social categories. It also distracts researchers from interrogating re- lations of power among women. Thus, Hare-Mustin and Marecek, as well as some other researchers, have called for feminist psychologists to lay aside the question of gender

253

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk1495.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e4b940fbc355f485fbb9f72bc23d3ef215e4332a
title: untitled
---
# Sex Differences and Similarities

In the decades preceding the second wave of feminism, psy- chologists had assumed profound differences between men and women in cognitive capacities, emotions, personality traits, values, and inclinations. These presumptions furnished support for the norm of male superiority and justiﬁed a range of inequities between men and women. Thus, one of the ﬁrst projects of feminists in psychology was a program of correc- tive research, aimed at reexamining purported differences be- tween men and women. In 1974, Eleanor Maccoby and Carol Jacklin published a review of sex-difference research in psy- chology that soon became a classic. Surveying over 1,400 studies covering more than 80 psychological traits and skills, they found reliable evidence for sex differences in only four areas. Indeed, many of the studies were so ﬂawed that noth- ing could be concluded from them.

Studies of the psychological differences and similarities between men and women still continue. However, a number of important methodological and conceptual advances have been made. Feminist researchers have pointed out repeatedly that a sex-difference ﬁnding does not signify a difference that is inherent or biologically determined. A great deal of femi- nist research has examined the power of roles, norms, and expectations to inﬂuence behavior, as well as the penalties in- curred for role violations. Indeed, the correlational design of most sex-difference studies makes it impossible to draw any conclusions about causality. Another signiﬁcant advance is the adaptation of meta-analysis for use in investigations of sex differences (Hyde & Linn, 1988). Like a narrative review of the literature, meta-analysis collates the results of selected studies into a single integrated summary. Meta-analysis, however, cumulates the results statistically. Meta-analysis also calculates the size of a gender difference (Johnson & Eagly, 2000).

Feminist psychologists challenged psychology’s con- ception and measurement of masculinity and femininity. Anne Constantinople (1973) pointed out that standard
