---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7a1d42465fa42a560206b9873f39d7fee3b30a50
title: untitled
---
# 272 Educational Psychology

division status as Division 15. Only three years later, in 1949, Dael Wolﬂe, the APA executive secretary, claimed that educational psychology had “lost its momentum,” and in the early 1950s the suggestion was made to combine educa- tional psychology with Division 12, Clinical Psychology (O’Donnell & Levin, 2001).

Notwithstanding these problems, the discipline of educa- tional psychology seemed quite deﬁned in its early years. Practitionersfocusedonproblemsineducationandlookedfor resolutions to those problems. However, these years were marred by considerable criticism of educational psychology andofeducationalpsychologists,anditwasmuchmorelikely that a psychologist working in education would refer to him- self or herself as a psychologist than as an educational psy- chologist (Sutherland, 1988). Ironically, perhaps, America’s consternation over Russia’s advances in science and technol- ogy spurred a new interest in research and funding of educa- tion, which in turn spurred a renewed interest in educational psychology.Thus,Division15showedmorethanaseven fold increasebetweentheyears1959and1967,growingfromonly 525 members to almost 4,000, making it one of the largest divisions within the American Psychological Association (Charles, 1976).

In the 11 years between 1977 and 1988, however, Division 15 membership declined by almost 40% (Farley, 1989). Al- though this decline was substantial, the 1,400-member loss still left Division 15 with more total members than many other APA divisions, and still in the top 10 in terms of total division membership. As Farley notes, this membership loss was largely due to many factors, including the creation of closely related or component divisions within the APA that drew members away from Division 15, as well as member- ship drifts to special societies such as the Psychonomics Society. In particular, the more education-centered organi- zation, the American Educational Research Association (AERA), also drew members away from the APA. Many fac- ulty and graduate students have also elected to pursue mem- bership in one or more additional organizations that reﬂect their individual theoretical, research, or population interests. These organizations are as likely to be traditionally psy- chology based (e.g., American Psychological Society, Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology) as they are to be traditionally education based (e.g., National Association of Developmental Education, the National Read- ing Conference). Rather than reﬂecting disagreement or an outgrowth of factions within educational psychology, this diversity of organizational membership instead reﬂects the growing recognition by contemporary educational psycholo- gists that we are qualiﬁed—perhaps uniquely so—to serve a wide variety of public interests.
