---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d36705d091ca809d2493f625940918c0dd775a9a
title: untitled
---
# Prior

Witmer was sufﬁciently encouraged by this success and sufﬁciently convinced that psychology could be helpful to persuade the university administration to back the creation of a psychology clinic in 1896. Later that year, at the American Psychological Association (APA) convention, he reported to his colleagues what he had done and urged them to do like- wise. He spoke of a “clinical method,” which would educate students through demonstrations and contacts with those who required the services of psychologists. Thus, the psycho- logical clinic would be an agency for instruction, original research, and service to the community (Reisman, 1991; Witmer, 1897).

The treatments Witmer practiced and taught were essen- tially pedagogical. In so doing, he carried on in the tradition of such pioneers as J. Rodriguez Pereira, who taught the deaf to speak; J. M. G. Itard, who attempted to educate and civi- lize Victor, the Wild Boy of Aveyron; and Edouard Seguin, who set up the ﬁrst school to train those with mental retarda- tion (Routh, del Barrio, & Carpentero, 1996). However, it should also be recognized that Witmer, in common with many clinicians today, believed that a broad range of prob- lems indicated the need for remediation and training. To Witmer, a juvenile delinquent was deﬁcient in moral training or proper conduct, and he thought of a child who might be re- garded as psychotic today as developmentally arrested in a variety of behaviors that required correction.

In assessing the person, Witmer at ﬁrst relied upon obser- vation and whatever psychometric devices were available, which were then not very many. He also availed himself of the services of social workers, teachers, and any other pro- fessional who might be indicated, such as neurologists, optometrists, and physicians. A few years after Alfred Binet developed the ﬁrst age scale for measuring children’s intelli- gence in France (Binet & Simon, 1905), Witmer incorporated a version of it into his clinical assessment procedures. An- other important aspect of how Witmer viewed assessment was that he saw the attempted remediation of a problem as an opportunity to test his understanding of it. Thus, he regarded treatment as part of assessment and to be often decisive in de- termining the validity of one’s diagnosis.

About a decade after the founding of the clinic,Witmer ap- pealed to Philadelphia philanthropist Mrs. J. Lewis (Mary L.) Crozer for funds to establish a clinical journal. By then, Wit- mer was offering courses and a training program in this new ﬁeld of psychology and appeared to be successfully serving the community. She agreed to give him the money, and in 1907, a journal called The Psychological Clinic began publi- cation. For the next 30 years, until it ceased publication in 1937, Witmer served as its editor, frequent contributor, occa- sional book reviewer, and gossip columnist. In its ﬁrst issue,

Witmer (1907b) wrote what is perhaps the most signiﬁcant article in the history of clinical psychology (McReynolds, 1997).

Witmer called for the creation of the ﬁeld of clinical psy- chology as an independent profession, though grounded in the science of psychology. While his experiences had been al- most exclusively with children, he made it clear in the last paragraph of the article that clinical psychology could help others as well:

I would not have it thought that the method of clinical psychol- ogy is limited necessarily to mentally and morally retarded children. . . . The methods of clinical psychology are necessarily invoked wherever the status of an individual mind is determined by observation and experiment, and pedagogical treatment ap- plied to effect a change, i.e., the development of such individual mind. Whether the subject be a child or an adult, the examination and treatment may be conducted and their results expressed in the terms of the clinical method. (Witmer, 1907b)

Witmer also recognized that clinical psychology en- croached to some extent upon the ﬁeld of psychiatry. How- ever, he believed that given the proper training, the clinical psychologist could make contributions that were distinctive and valuable. Such training was being provided under Witmer’s direction in the psychological clinic and through formal graduate-level course work in developmental psy- chology, abnormal psychology, and mental and physical defects of school children.

By 1909, the staff of the psychological clinic consisted of Witmer as director, an assistant director, ﬁve trained PhDs as examiners, a social worker, and three assistant social work- ers. They were no longer alone. The Iowa Psychological Clinic was founded in 1913 by Carl Seashore and R. L. Sylvester (Routh, 1984), and a psychological clinic was also established at Clark University in 1913. Moreover, there were courses in clinical psychology and there would soon be clinics at the University of Minnesota and the University of Washington (Reisman, 1991).

Also by 1909, Witmer was urging a broader goal for clin- icians and “orthogenics” as a new designation for the ﬁeld. Orthogenics included all that is now meant by the terms primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention, as well as the human potential movement. This was to be a profession con- cerned with human development, both of the individual and the species. Whatever was determined to impede or distort development, including social conditions and public policies that might be damaging, was grist for the clinician’s mill and should be identiﬁed and remedied. With regard to the nutri- tional, intellectual, and emotional deprivations of poor chil- dren, Witmer (1909–1910) stated, “The problem calls for
