# 180 Personality

The 1920s saw “the culmination on a mass scale of public interest in personal, introspective accounts of private ex- periences” and the development of “a mass market for popu- larized personal documents” (Burnham, 1968b, p. 368). Americans read magazines such as True Story (Krueger, 1925), ﬁrst published in 1919 (Ernst, 1991), and Personality: A Magazine of Biography, published from 1927 to 1928 and edited by Ralph Henry Graves, who in 1934 published a bi- ography of Henry Ford—an emblematic ﬁgure of the “cul- ture of personality” (Susman, 1979, p. 223). They sought advice from publications on popular systems of character analysis such as graphology, the interpretation of personality from handwriting (see Thornton, 1996, who suggests that graphologists’romantic view of handwriting as a reﬂection of the unique individual offered more comfort to Americans than did psychologists’ measures of individual differences). The “new psychology,” which borrowed concepts of hidden human motives from psychoanalysis, became “one of the characteristic fads of the age” (Burnham, 1968b, p. 352). “Candid and confessional autobiographical fragments were central in popular expositions of psychoanalysis,” and case reports “had all the appeal—and more—of true confessions” (p. 368). Public fascination with psychoanalysis was symbol- ized in 1924 by the appearance of Freud on the cover of Time magazine (Fancher, 2000).

Academic and professional cultures, too, reﬂected a con- cern with personality. James C. Johnston, for example, noted “the wide vogue” of biography (1927, p. x), “the literature of personality” (pp. xi–xii), and argued for the establishment of separate departments of biography, such as those that had been recently established at Carleton College and at Dartmouth (see the introduction to Johnston’s book by bi- ographer Gamaliel Bradford, 1927). Personality became a central concept in academic and professional ﬁelds such as psychopathology and psychiatry (Taylor, 2000), sociology (Barenbaum, 2000), education (Danziger, 1990), and social work (Richmond, 1922; V. P. Robinson, 1930), and in the mental hygiene movement (Cohen, 1983), as well as in psy- chology (Nicholson, 1997, 1998, 2000). Following Freud’s visit to America in 1909, many of these ﬁelds began to reﬂect the inﬂuence of psychoanalysis (see, e.g., Danziger, 1997; Hale, 1971; Lubove, 1965; Shakow & Rapaport, 1964).

It is important to note the multidisciplinary nature of per- sonality studies during the formative period of personality psychology. (Craik, 1986, makes a similar point but uses the term “interdisciplinary” instead of “multidisciplinary”; we use the latter term to suggest that research on personality was conducted in many disciplines, whether or not it involved cross-disciplinary collaboration.) At this time, the boundaries between psychology and disciplines such as sociology and

psychiatry were unclear. For example, both psychology and sociology developed subﬁelds of “social psychology” during this period (see the chapter by Morawski & Bayer in this vol- ume), and social psychologists in both disciplines considered personality a primary topic of research (Barenbaum, 2000). Indeed, as late as the 1930s, according to Smith (1997), “there was little clear separation between sociology and psychology” in personality research, despite a general ten- dency toward separation of sociological and psychological social psychology (see also Good, 2000); researchers in both ﬁelds were “driven by the common interest in knowledge to make possible the individual’s social adjustment” (Smith, 1997, p. 765).

In the following sections, we examine methodological choices regarding the study of individual lives in several areas in which personality became a central concept during the ﬁrst three decades of the twentieth century—psychiatry and psychopathology, sociology and social work, the inter- disciplinary mental hygiene movement, and psychology. There are, of course, other areas we might have included. For example, in anthropology, life history research aroused some interest following the publication of Radin’s (1926) Crashing Thunder, but it became popular only in the 1930s and 1940s (Hudson, 1973). We have chosen to treat in more depth the reception of case studies and life histories between 1900 and 1930 in areas closely related to psychology.