# Pitch Detection

As we noted, Helmholtz published a most inﬂuential work on hearing in 1863 (On the Sensation of Tone). The fundamental issue was how the nervous system codes sound frequency into our sensation of pitch. By this time, much was known about the cochlea, the auditory receptor apparatus. Helmholtz suggested that the basilar membrane in the cochlea func- tioned like a piano, resonating to frequencies according to the length of the ﬁbers. The place on the membrane so activated determined the pitch detected; this view was called the place theory of pitch. The major alternative view was the frequency theory (Rutherford, 1886), in which the basilar membrane was thought to vibrate as a whole due to the frequency of the tone activating it. Boring (1926) presented a comprehen- sive theoretical analysis of these possibilities.

One of Boring’s students, E. G.Wever, together with C.W. Bray, recorded from the region of the auditory nerve at the cochlea and found that the recorded electrical signal followed the frequency of the tone up to very high frequencies, many thousands of Hertz (Wever & Bray, 1930). So the frequency theory was vindicated. But there were problems. A single nerve ﬁber cannot ﬁre at much greater than 1,000 Hertz. The attempted answer was the volley theory: Groups of ﬁbers al- ternated in ﬁring to code higher frequencies.

Wever and Bray’s discovery is an interesting example of a perfectly good experiment fooled by biology. As it happens, there is a process in the cochlea much like the pizoelectric effect—a tone generates electrical activity at the same fre- quency as the tone, now termed the cochlear microphonic. It is thought to be an epiphenomenon, unrelated to the coding functions of the auditory system.

The solution to the question how the cochlea coded tone frequency was provided by Georg von Békésy. Born in Budapest, he received his PhD in physics in 1923 and was a professor at the University of Budapest from 1932 to 1946. In 1947, he accepted a research appointment in the psychology department at Harvard, where he worked until 1964. During his time at Harvard, he was offered a tenured professorship but did not accept it because he disliked formal teaching.

During his years of full-time research at Harvard, he solved the problem of the cochlea, for which he received the Nobel Prize in 1961. In 1964, he accepted a professorship at the University of Hawaii, where he remained until his death.

By careful microscopic study of the cochlea, Békésy de- termined the actual movements of the basilar membrane in response to tones (see Békésy, 1947). When William James Hall was built at Harvard to house the psychology depart- ment, a special ﬂoating room was constructed in the base- ment for Békésy’s experiments. The entire room ﬂoated on an air cushion generated by a large air compressor. Further- more, the experimental table ﬂoated within the ﬂoating room on its own compressor. For Békésy’s experiments it was nec- essary to avoid all external building vibrations. (One of the authors, R.F.T., had the opportunity to use this facility when at Harvard.)

Békésy discovered that the traveling waves of the basilar membrane induced by a given tone establish a standing wave pattern that maximally displaces a given region for a given tone and different regions for different tones. The pattern of displacement is more complicated than the Helmholtz theory but nonetheless provided a triumph for the place theory.

Actually, another kind of physiological evidence provided strong support for the place theory in the 1940s. Woolsey and Walzl (1942) published an extraordinary study in which they electrically stimulated different regions of the auditory nerve ﬁbers in the cochlea (the ﬁbers are laid out along the basilar membrane) in an anesthetized cat and recorded evoked po- tentials in the auditory cortex. The place stimulated on the cochlea determined the region of the auditory cortex acti- vated. An important practical outcome of all this work is the cochlear prosthesis developed for deaf individuals.

More recent studies recording the activity of single neu- rons in the auditory cortex have veriﬁed and extended these observations (e.g., Hind et al., 1960). When the ear is stimu- lated with low-intensity pure tones (anesthetized cat), neurons—in particular, narrow dorsal-ventral bands in the primary auditory cortex—respond selectively to tones of dif- ferent frequency. The regions of the cochlea activated by pure tones are represented in an anterior-posterior series of narrow dorsal-ventral bands along the primary auditory cortex, a cochlea-topic representation.

Like the visual sciences, the modern ﬁeld of the hearing sciences has become an entirely separate ﬁeld with its own societies, journals, and NIH institute focusing on psy- chophysics and the neurobiology of the auditory system. We know a great deal less about the organization of auditory ﬁelds in the cerebral cortex in primates and humans, inciden- tally, than we do about the visual system. The human auditory