---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 52f2ed9b2a934a1d4ba1180aa3961098a3619d56
title: untitled
---
## Minority Psychologists in the Community 489

through their participation in monthly governance meetings, termed the council. The council votes for the members of the board of directors. They also advocate for program priorities. For example, many members complained about the crowds hanging out day and night in front of a neighborhood single- room occupancy “hotel,” considered to be a menacing eye- sore. It turned out that public agencies placed people in these dwellings upon their release from jails, prisons, and mental hospitals. It was housing of last resort for the troubled who were down on their luck.

With the help of city hall, the mental health center assem- bled the directors of the area’s city departments for the police, ﬁre, sanitation, health, and welfare, to improve the situation. It was the ﬁrst time they met as a group. Identifying viola- tions on the property and sending summons to the landlord, the building was made safer and cleaner, and an array of services were brought into the building to engage and serve the tenants. All of this functioned under the leadership of the mental health center, which also assigned a multidisci- pline team to the effort. There was an outpouring of pride at the center and a sense of competence in the neighborhood with the clearing of that notorious block!

The second example of the inﬂuence of African Ameri- can leadership is one that occurred within the large child guidance clinic of the New York City public school system. During the 50 years since the service was established, it functioned according to a traditional model of referring to the school social worker or school psychologist difﬁcult to manage children and those who seemed to have learning difﬁculties. More boys than girls were referred for behavior problems, restlessness, rebellion, ﬁghting, and the like, and more minority children were referred both for behavior and “mental retardation.” Nevertheless, the concentration of staff was assigned to the “good” schools, meaning the schools where the students were whiter and somewhat more afﬂuent. These students were more likely to receive psy- chotherapy when needed, since the families were considered to be more cooperative and less suspicious of a child guid- ance referral, and to be more available and less likely to be working or to have a job that would be jeopardized by ab- sences for school visits. The result was a grossly inequitable distribution of care.

When the author was awarded the directorship of the agency, she set about changing these practices and attitudes. She followed certain principles of continuing education: The prospectivestudents,adultprofessionalsall,shouldhavemax- imum inﬂuence over how and what should be taught, based on clearly stated agency goals; the work should be based on the strengths of the workers; and what is learned should be re- wardedwithmoresuccessfulpractice.Theunderlyingpremise
