# Scope of Content

A discipline is deﬁned by the kinds of questions that are asked, which can be determined by examining the content of the ﬁeld at different points in time. Changes in scope are evi- dent from reviewing textbooks (e.g., Viteles, 1932) and chap- ters in the Annual Review of Psychology and the Handbook of Industrial and Organizational Psychology (Dunnette, 1976; Dunnette & Hough, 1990–1992; Triandis, Dunnette, & Hough, 1994). Table 18.1 contains the contents of Viteles’s book. Table 18.2 contains a list of topics from the chapter titled “Industrial Psychology” in the ﬁrst volume of the An- nual Review of Psychology (Shartle, 1950). Similar topics were covered in chapters for the next 10 years. In 1961 and subsequent years, multiple chapters on related areas, such as personnel management, industrial social psychology, con- sumer psychology, personnel selection, program evaluation, group dynamics, and engineering psychology, were included. In 1964, the ﬁrst chapter devoted to organizational psychol- ogy was published. Table 18.2 displays the broad range of topics related to I-O psychology from 1961 to 2000.

Dunnette (1976) provided several observations about changes in content by comparing the 1950 Handbook of Ap- plied Psychology (Fryer & Henry, 1950) and the 1976 Hand- book of Industrial and Organizational Psychology (Dunnette, 1976). He noted that the 1950 Handbook consisted of tech- niques and applications; scant attention was given to re- search, research methodology, or theories of individual or organizational behavior. In contrast, the 1976 Handbook con- tents, shown in Table 18.3, emphasized research strategies and methods, theories of behavior, and the psychological inﬂuences and forces of organizational characteristics on individuals.The earlier handbook covered all areas of applied psychology, whereas the latter included only I-O, reﬂecting