data/clean/untitled__chunk1374.md, before:

# 230 Social Psychology

data, and class-based presumptions about workers, especially female employees, as less rational and subject to “uncon- scious” reactions (Bramel & Friend, 1981; Gillespie, 1985, 1988). Such unreported psychological dynamics of the experimental situation, dynamics later to be called “artifacts” (Suls & Rosnow, 1988), went undocumented in these and other experimental ventures despite the fact that some psychologists were describing them as methodological prob- lems (Rosenzweig, 1933; Rudmin, Trimpop, Kryl, & Boski, 1987).

In 1936 Muzafer Sherif extended social psychology to psychologists themselves, who, he suggested, are “no excep- tion to the rule about the impress of cultural forces.” Sherif admonished social psychologists for such disregard—for their “lack of perspective”—arguing that “Whenever they study human nature, or make comparisons between different groups of people, without ﬁrst subjecting their own norms to critical revision in order to gain the necessary perspective, they force the absolutism of their subjectivity or their community-centrism upon all the facts, even those labori- ously achieved through experiment” (p. 9).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk1374.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 866e8bb4be5909f85f8fec819d847de01c7b1d7e
title: untitled
---
# Work during the Interwar Years

Allport’s Social Psychology foundational for an experimen- tal social psychology that emphatically took the individual to be the site of social phenomena. (For an account of the discipline’s “origin myths,” including Allport’s work, see Samelson, 1974, 2000.) This “asocial” social psychology followed its parent, psychology, in its ever-growing fascina- tion with experimentation and statistical techniques of inves- tigation (Danziger, 1990; Hornstein, 1988; Winston, 1990; Winston & Blais, 1996), increasing considerably after World War II (Stam, Radtke, & Lubek, 2000). Allport’s text was largely one of boundary charting for the researchers who ex- plored the new ﬁeld. However, it also is important to see that during the interwar period Allport’s introduction comprised but one scientiﬁc stream in “a set of rivulets, some of them stagnating, dammed up, or evaporating . . . and others swept up in the larger stream originating elsewhere, if still main- taining a more or less distinctive coloration” (Samelson, 2000, p. 505).

One of these rivulets ﬂowed from the Progressive Era desiderata that social scientiﬁc experts devise scientiﬁc tech- niques of social control and took more precise form through the rubric of the individual’s “personal adjustment” to the social world (Napoli, 1975). Linking social psychology to the emerging ﬁeld of personality (Barenbaum, 2000) on the one hand, and to industrial psychology with its attendant commercial ventures on the other, the idea of personal adjust- ment undergirds substantial research on attitudes, opinions, and the relations between individual personality and social behavior. Employing the ﬁrst scale to measure masculinity and femininity, a scale that became the prototype for many such tests, for instance,Terman and Miles (1936) were able to observe the relations between an individual’s psychological sex identiﬁcation and problems in their social functioning such as marital discord (Morawski, 1994). Another example of such adjustment research is seen in what has come to be called the “Hawthorne experiment” (purportedly the ﬁrst ob- jective social psychology experiment in the “real world”), which investigated not individual personality but the individ- ual’s adjustment within groups to changes in workplace con- ditions. The experiment is the source of the eponymous “Hawthorne effect,” the reported ﬁnding that “the workers’ attitude toward their job and the special attention they re- ceived from the researchers and supervisors was as important as the actual changes in conditions themselves, if not more so” (Collier, Minton, & Reynolds, 1991, p. 139).Archival ex- amination of the Hawthorne experiments indicates a rather different history: These “objective” experiments actually en- tailed prior knowledge of the effects of varying workplace conditions, suppression of problematic and contradictory

229
