data/clean/untitled__chunk1100.md, before:

## Promoting the Study of Individual Lives: Gordon Allport and Henry Murray 187

status. But he noted that even a general law could be one that explained “how uniqueness comes about”; for example, the principle of functional autonomy, which suggests that mo- tivesbecomeindependentoftheiroriginsin“infantile”or“ar- chaic” drives (p. 194; emphasis in original), accounts for unique personal motives. Allport also pointed out psycholo- gists’ neglect of laws that applied to particular individuals: “Thecourseofeachlifeisalawfulevent,eventhoughitisun- like all others of its class” (p. 558). The study of individual lives, he suggested, would enable psychologists to make bet- ter predictions of individual behavior, one of the goals of sci- entiﬁc psychology.

Allport saw the case study as the psychologist’s “ﬁnal afﬁrmation of the individuality and uniqueness of every per- sonality” (G. W. Allport, 1937b, p. 390). Clinicians and soci- ologists, he argued, had developed the method with a focus on “maladjustments” or on “social inﬂuences surrounding the individual” (p. 390) rather than on personality itself. Focus- ing within the person, he chose to overlook “the factors shap- ing personality” (p. viii; emphasis in original). This neglect of cultural and social contexts reﬂected the emerging person- ality ideal (Nicholson, 1998, in press) and the psychological Zeitgeist (for example, Allport’s text was more successful than that of Stagner, 1937, who emphasized social and cultural factors; see Barenbaum, 2000). Ironically, however, it may have resulted in case studies that were one-sided (see our discussion of context later in the chapter).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk1100.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 04f481940419127974f568344e3f1ce7f66d1413
title: untitled
---
# Promoting “Scientiﬁc Case Studies”

In the early 1930s, Allport adopted a new strategy in his ef- forts to promote the case study. Employing more scientiﬁc rhetoric and echoing the prevailing view that the method was “unsatisfactory,” he suggested nevertheless that “the concrete individual has eluded study by any other approach” and re- marked that “in the future there will undoubtedly be attempts to standardize the case study in some way which will reduce its dependence upon the uncontrolled artistry of the author” (G.W.Allport &Vernon, 1930, p. 700; see also G.W.Allport, 1933; Nicholson, 1996). Toward this end,Allport and his stu- dents designed experimental studies of “intuitive” processes and attempted to improve the scientiﬁc respectability of case studies by addressing methodological issues related to the question, “How shall a psychological life history be written?” (G. W.Allport, 1967, p. 3). For example, Cantril (1932; cited in G. W. Allport, 1937b) showed that “optimum comprehen- sion and memory-value result from the use of general charac- terization followed by speciﬁc illustration” (p. 393n).

Allport’s(1937b) textreﬂected thischangein strategy.Un- like other authors of psychological texts (e.g., Stagner, 1937), who treated the case study as a clinical method, Allport treateditasaresearchmethod.Notingthatthecasestudy“has not ordinarily been recognized as a psychological method,” he described it as “the most revealing method of all” and de- voted several pages to six “suggestions for the preparation of a case study” (1937b, p. 390)—for example, “Deal only with apersonalitythatisknown”(p.391;emphasisinoriginal).He cited the work of several students relating to the ability to judge personality and to the most effective method of describ- ing personality. He discussed the “generalization of case stud- ies” in “the construction of psychological laws” (p. 395)—a “nomothetic” application that would bolster their scientiﬁc
