## MEASURING ACHIEVEMENT, APTITUDES, AND INTERESTS

As noted in previous sections of the chapter, intellectual and personality assessment emerged largely out of a perceived necessity for administrators to make decisions about people, speciﬁcally with respect to their educational requirements and their eligibility for military service. By contrast, methods of assessing achievement, aptitudes, and interests were de- veloped primarily to help people make decisions about them- selves. To be sure, measures of what a person is able to do or is interested in doing can be used to determine class place- ment in the schools or personnel selection in organizations. More commonly, however, these measures have been used to help people plan their educational and vocational future on the basis of what appear to be their abilities and interests.

Early formulations identiﬁed tests of achievement as ways of measuring the effects of learning, as distinguished from “native ability” that was independent of learning and mea- sured by aptitude and intelligence tests. There remains a gen- eral consensus that aptitude tests serve to predict a person’s potential for improved performance following education or training in some endeavor, whereas achievement tests serve to evaluate the performance level attained at a particular point in time. It is also widely agreed, however, that “aptitude test” scores are inﬂuenced by learning and life experience as well as inborn talents, and that “achievement test” scores identify future potential as well as present accomplishment. Accordingly, what respondents display on both kinds of tests

is the extent to which they have developed certain kinds of abilities, and little purpose is served by rigid distinctions between these types of measures (see Anastasi & Urbina, 1997, chap. 17). With this in mind, the discussion that fol- lows traces brieﬂy the development of four measures of achievement/aptitude and interest that have deep roots in the history of assessment psychology and enjoy continued wide- spread use: the Wide-Range Achievement Test, the Strong Interest Inventory, the Kuder Occupational Interest Survey, and the Holland Self-Directed Search.