# The Verbal Learning Tradition

One psychologist of the era, however, Hermann Ebbinghaus (1850–1909), was an exception to the focus on conscious experience, creating the experimental study of learning with his On Memory (1885). Ebbinghaus worked within the asso- ciative tradition, turning philosophical speculation about association formation into a scientiﬁc research program, the verbal learning tradition. Right at the outset, he faced to a problem that has bedeviled the scientiﬁc study of human cognition, making a methodological decision of great long- term importance. One might study learning by giving sub- jects things such as poems to learn by heart. Ebbinghaus reasoned, however, that learning a poem involves two men- tal processes, comprehension of the meaning of the poem and learning the words in the right order. He wanted to study the latter process, association formation in its pure state. So he made up nonsense syllables, which, he thought, had no meaning. Observe that by excluding meaning from his re- search program, Ebbinghaus studied procedural learning ex- clusively, as would the behaviorists of the twentieth century.

Ebbinghaus’s nonsense syllables were typically consonant- vowel-consonant (CVC) trigrams (to make them pronounce- able), and for decades to come, thousands of subjects would learnhundredsofthousandsofCVClistsinserialorpairedas- sociateform.Usinghislists,Ebbinghauscouldempiricallyin- vestigate traditional questions philosophers had asked about associative learning. How long are associations maintained? AreassociationsformedonlybetweenCVCsthatareadjacent, or are associations formed between remote syllables?

Questions like these dominated the study of human learn- ing until about 1970. The verbal learning tradition died for internal and external reasons. Internally, it turned out that nonsense syllables were not really meaningless, undermining their raison d’etre. Subjects privately turned nonsense into meaning by various strategies. For example, RIS looks mean- ingless, but could be reversed to mean SIR, or interpreted as the French word for rice. Externally, the cognitive psycholo- gists of the so-called cognitive revolution (Leahey, 2000) wanted to study complex mental processes, including mean- ing, and rejected Ebbinghaus’s procedures as simplistic.