data/clean/untitled__chunk0355.md, before:

# School Psychology

Unlike the other three practice specialties, the Second World War had much less impact on the practice of school psychol- ogy. Such practice has always been more circumscribed, as the label would imply. Furthermore, whereas the doctoral degree has been assumed to be the minimal level of training necessary for professional practice in the other three special- ties, historically most school psychologists have practiced with a master’s degree or specialty credential. Further, in the ﬁrst half of the twentieth century, school psychologists came from many different educational backgrounds, sometimes with little training in psychology.

Fagan (1990) has divided the history of school psychology into “Hybrid years” (1890–1969) and “Thoroughbred years” (1970 to present). The Hybrid years describe a period when school psychology was “a blend of many kinds of educa- tional and psychological practitioners loosely mobilized around a dominant role of psychoeducational assessment for special class placement” (p. 913). That role still exists in the Thoroughbred years, but the practitioner is more narrowly deﬁned as a school psychologist, typically someone who has a master’s or doctoral degree in school psychology from a nationally accredited program.

The ﬁrst master’s degree training program for school psy- chologists was initiated at New York University in 1928 and the ﬁrst doctoral training program at the University of Illinois in 1953. The APA did not begin accrediting doctoral pro- grams in school psychology until 1971, and only accredits at the doctoral level. Master’s degree programs are accredited by the NationalAssociation of School Psychologists (NASP), an organization founded in 1969.

Like the other practice specialties, there have been sig- niﬁcant postwar changes for school psychologists as they, too, have struggled to ﬁnd their identity as a profession (see the report of the Thayer Conference, Cutts, 1955). Still, the Thoroughbred years have been ones of tremendous growth in training and practice for the ﬁeld. Psychological services in the schools have increased dramatically since the 1970s, in part stimulated by America’s baby boom, but also by federal legislation on education, particularly laws on special educa- tion such as the landmark Public Law 94-142, enacted in 1974, which mandated education for all children regardless of handicap.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk0355.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c8fbe2776caa46db4160d957826a0207f0fe8e3e
title: untitled
---
# Industrial Psychology

Other practice specialties also beneﬁted from psychologists’ record of accomplishment during the war. Historian Donald Napoli (1981) wrote this about the postwar growth of indus- trial psychology:

The military had given psychologists a chance to prove the effectiveness of selection, classiﬁcation, and aptitude testing, and psychologists met the challenge successfully. Civilian em- ployers also offered new opportunities, which grew largely from the labor shortage produced by wartime mobilization. Business managers, beset by high rates of absenteeism and job turnover, took unprecedented interest in hiring the right worker and keeping him contented on the job. Management turned to

psychologists . . . and the amount of psychological testing quickly increased. Surveys show that in 1939 only 14% of busi- nesses were using such tests; in 1947 the proportion rose to 50%, and in 1952, 75%. (p. 138)

Another area of substantial development for the industrial psychologist that grew out of the wartime work was the ﬁeld of human factors or engineering psychology. The military, in particular, continued to employ psychologists in its research on human–machine interactions, but businesses as well began to employ psychologists to design irons, telephones, arc welders, vending machines, chemical reﬁneries, and the like. Human factors remained an important part of industrial psy- chology into the 1960s but gradually separated, a transition begun in the late 1950s whenAPA’s Division 21 (Engineering Psychology) and the Human Factors Society were founded. It was replaced by psychologists interested in applying social psychological theories to the problems of organizations, lead- ing to the growth of the “O” half of the I-O psychologist.

Prior to the war, most industrial psychologists served as consultants to businesses, thus working part-time as profes- sionals. After the war, however, that pattern changed dramati- cally. Businesses offered full-time employment opportunities, and consequently graduate programs began to train the I-O practitioners to ﬁll those jobs.
