## half century earlier, that speciﬁc parts of the brain mediate speciﬁc behaviors.

Both Gall and Bouillaud seemed to be vindicated in 1861 with the publication of the proceedings from a meeting of the Société d’Anthropologie de Paris. Broca, assisted by Alexandre Ernest Aubertin, Bouillaud’s son-in-law and a strong believer in localization and in Bouillaud’s hypothesis, presented the neuropathological ﬁndings from the brain of his patient, Monsieur Leborgne. [This patient subsequently was referred to by the name “Tan,” the only utterance Broca ever heard Monsieur Leborgne make (Broca, 1861).]

Broca’s ﬁnding from his patient Tan has been regarded by some historians as the most important clinical discovery in the history of cortical localization. Moreover, within the decade, what some historians regard as the most important laboratory discovery pertaining to cortical localization was reported when Gustav Fritsch and Eduard Hitzig (1870) dis- covered the cortical motor area in the dog and proved that cortical localization was not restricted to a single function (Finger, 1994). The discoveries of the speech area by Broca and the motor area by Fritsch and Hitzig were seen as vindi- cation for Gall’s ideas and reestablished him as the father of localization.

Following the pioneering study by Fritsch and Hitzig on the localization and organization of the motor area of the cerebral cortex, localization of function quickly won the day, at least for sensory and motor systems. In the last three decades of the nineteenth century, the general locations of the visual and auditory areas of the cortex were identiﬁed. The ﬁeld of physiology, in particular neurophysiology—for example, in the work of Sir Charles Sherrington—together with clinical neurology and neuroanatomy, were exciting new ﬁelds at the beginning of the twentieth century.

At this time, the only experimental tools for studying brain organization and functions were ablation and electrical stim- ulation. Neuroanatomy was in its descriptive phase; thanks in part to the Golgi method, the monumental work of Ramon y Cajal was completed over a period of several decades begin- ning near the end of the nineteenth century. Neurochemistry was in its descriptive phase, characterizing chemical sub- stances in the brain.

The ﬁrst recording of a nerve action potential with a cathode-ray tube was done by Gasser and Erlanger in 1922, butthemethodwasnotmuchuseduntilthe1930s.Thehuman EEG was rediscovered in 1929 by H. Berger, and the method was applied to animal research and human clinical neurology, particularly epilepsy, in the 1930s by, for example,Alexander Forbes, Hallowell Davis, and Donald Lindsley.

The pioneering studies of Adrian in England (1940) and of Wade Marshall, Clinton Woolsey, and Philip Bard (1941) at

Johns Hopkins were the ﬁrst to record electrical evoked po- tentials from the somatic sensory cortex in response to tactile stimulation. Woolsey and his associates developed the de- tailed methodology for evoked potential mapping of the cerebral cortex. In an extraordinary series of studies, they de- termined the localization and organization of the somatic sensory areas, the visual areas and the auditory areas of the cerebral cortex, in a comparative series of mammals. They initially deﬁned two projection areas (I and II) for each sen- sory ﬁeld; that is, they found two complete functional maps of the receptor surface for each sensory region of the cerebral cortex, for example, two complete representations of the skin surface in the somatic-sensory cortex.

In the 1940s and 1950s, the evoked potential method was used to analyze the organization of sensory systems at all levels from the ﬁrst-order neurons to the cerebral cortex. The principle that emerged was strikingly clear and simple—in every sensory system the nervous system maintained recep- totopic maps or projections at all levels from receptors—skin surface, retina, basilar membrane—to cerebral cortex. The receptor maps in the brain were not point-to-point; rather, they reﬂected the functional organization of each system— ﬁngers, lips, and tongue areas were much enlarged in the pri- mate somatic cortex, half the primary visual cortex repre- sented the forea, and so on.

Theevokedpotentialmethodwasverywellsuitedtoanaly- sis of the overall organization of sensory systems in the brain. However, it could reveal nothing about what the individual neurons were doing.This had to await development of the mi- croelectrode(averysmallelectrodethatrecordstheactivityof a single cell). Indeed, the microelectrode has been the key to analysis of the ﬁne-grained organization and “feature detec- tor” properties (most neurons respond only to certain aspects, or features, of a stimulus) of sensory neurons. The ﬁrst intra- cellular glass pipette microelectrode was actually invented by G. Ling and R. W. Gerard in 1949; they developed it to record intracellularly from frog muscle. Several investigators had been using small wire electrodes to record from nerve ﬁbers, for example, Robert Galambos at Harvard in 1939 (auditory nerve; see Galambos & Davis, 1943) and Birdsey Renshaw at the University of Oregon Medical School in the 1940s (dorsal and ventral spinal roots). Metal electrodes were generally found to be preferable for extracellular single-unit recording (i.e., recording the spike discharges of a single neuron where the tip of the microelectrode is outside the cell but close enough to record its activity clearly). Metal microelectrodes were improved in the early 1950s; R. W. Davies at Hopkins developed the platinum-iridium glass-coated microelectrode, D.HubelandT.Wiesel atHarvard developedthetungstenmi- croelectrode, and the search for putative stimulus coding

properties of neurons was on. The pioneering studies were those of Mountcastle and associates at Hopkins on the organi- zationofthesomatic-sensorysystem(Mountcastle,Davies,& Berman, 1957), those of Hubel and Wiesel (1959) at Harvard onthevisualsystem(andMaturanaandLettvin’sworkatMIT on the optic nerve ﬁbers of frogs, see Maturana, Lettrin, McCulloch,&Pitts,1960),andthoseofRose,Hind,Woolsey, and associates at Wisconsin on the auditory system (see Hind et al., 1960).

It was not until many years later that imaging methods were developed to study the organization and functions of the normal human brain (see following text). Heroic studies had been done on human brain functioning much earlier in neuro- surgical procedures (heroic both for the surgeon and the patient, e.g., Penﬁeld & Rasmussen, 1950). However, these patients typically suffered from severe epilepsy. The devel- opment of PET, fMRI, and other modern techniques is largely responsible for the explosion of information in the as- pect of biological psychology termed cognitive neuroscience (see following and the chapter by Leahey in this volume).