## Emergence of Forensic Psychology as a Recognized Subﬁeld 401

and (4) whether the probative value of the testimony out- weighed its possible prejudicial effect. Most subsequent deci- sions based on the Amaral criteria have come down against the admittance of expert testimony on the reliability of eye- witnesses (Brigham, Wasserman, & Meissner, 1999).

A new evidence code for federal cases, the Federal Rules of Evidence, was enacted in 1975 after extensive considera- tion by a prominent advisory committee, the U.S. Supreme Court, and both houses of Congress. The Federal Rules describe the criteria for admission of evidence for the entire federal court system; many states subsequently adopted sim- ilar codes. The central theme, as summarized by Woocher (1986, p. 48), is: “Only relevant evidence is admissible, and all relevant evidence is admissible in the absence of some countervailing policy” (italics in original). These relatively liberal criteria for admissibility are established in Rule 702, which declares that if scientiﬁc, technical, or other special- ized knowledge would assist the trier of fact (judge, jurors) to understand the evidence or to determine a fact in issue, then a qualiﬁed expert may deliver expert testimony about the mat- ter (Federal Rules of Evidence, 1975).

The U.S. Supreme Court dealt with the issue of the admis- sibility of scientiﬁc evidence in Daubert v. Merrill Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (1993). In addressing the differences between the Federal Rules of Evidence and the more restric- tive Frye test, the Court faced questions central to the poten- tial conﬂict between science and the law. To what extent should judges be gatekeepers, screening out “junk science” from naive jurors who might otherwise be misled or overly awed by its scientiﬁc appearance? Conversely, to what extent should juries be permitted to serve their traditional role as fact ﬁnders by having access to any evidence that is poten- tially relevant?

In its decision, the Court focused on the acceptability of the techniques used to gather the scientiﬁc evidence rather than on its “general acceptance” within the scientiﬁc commu- nity (as in the Frye test). The Court discussed the importance of establishing that the testimony is based on research that adheres to the “scientiﬁc method” and is “not only relevant, but reliable” (what is described as “reliable” by the justices would be called “valid” by psychologists). The Court’s deci- sion discussed several standards for evaluating the research, including peer review of published work, its testability (or “falsiﬁability”), whether it has a recognized “rate of error,” and whether it is consistent with recognized professional standards in the area.

Under this decision, judges must evaluate not only the conclusions but also the methods used by scientiﬁc experts. The Court opined that Rule 702 assigned to the trial judge the task of ensuring that the expert’s testimony was both reliable