# Scientiﬁc Speciﬁcity and the Social

James’s and Baldwin’s theories of the social self were em- bedded in their respective programmatic statements for psychology more generally. Other psychologists prepared more modest treatises on the social self. Among the studies contained in psychology journals of the last decade of the century are various studies depicting social psychology as anthropological-historical, as evolutionary and mechanistic, and as experimental science. For instance, Quantz (1898) undertook a study of humans’ relations to trees, describing dozens of myths and cultural practices to demonstrate the virtues of a social evolutionary explanation of customs, be- liefs, and the individual psyche. Using historical and anthro- pological records, he theorized that humans evolved to use reason except under certain social circumstances, where we regress to lower evolutionary status. Such historical re- searcheswereheldtoinformhumanconduct;forinstance,un- derstandinghowsocialevolutionisrecapitulatedinindividual development leads us to see how “an education which crowds out such feelings, or allows them to atrophy from disuse, is to be seriously questioned” (p. 500). In contrast to Quantz’s de- scriptive, historical approach but in agreement with his evolu- tionary perspective, Sheldon (1897) reported a study of the social activities of children using methods of quantiﬁcation and standardization to label types of people (boys and girls, different social classes) and forms of sociality (altruism, gang behavior). Incorporating both a mechanistic model of control and evolutionary ideas about social phenomena (sociality), Sheldon detected the risks of social-psychological regression to less evolved forms and, consequently, strongly advocated scientiﬁcally guided social regulation of human conduct. Soon after, Triplett’s (1898) study of competition bore no obvious evolutionary theorizing (or any other theory) but advanced an even stronger mechanistic model and scientiﬁc methodology. With its precise control, manipulation, and measurement of social variables, Triplett’s experiment com- pared a subject’s performance winding a ﬁshing reel when

undertaking the task alone or in competition with others. His experimental report offers no theoretical appreciation of the concepts of “social” or the relation of the individual to soci- ety; instead, what is social is simply operationalized as the residual effect when all other components of an action are factored out.Triplett baldly concluded, “From the above facts regarding the laboratory races we infer that the bodily pres- ence of another contestant participating simultaneously in the race serves to liberate latent energy not ordinarily available” (p. 533). Here the social has no unique properties, appears to abide by determinist laws, and requires no special investiga- tive methods or theories.

The research projects of Quantz, Sheldon, and Triplett along with the theoretical visions of James and Baldwin serve not to register some distinct originating moment in psychol- ogy’s social psychology but rather to exemplify the diversity of theories and methodologies available as the new century commenced. Evolution, ethics, history, and mechanics sup- plied viable theoretical bases for social psychology, and his- torical, observational, and experimental techniques likewise furnished plausible methods of inquiry. These promising foundations of a discipline were engaged in the investigation of varied social phenomena, but these protosocial psycholo- gists were especially attentive to two objects: the crowd or “mob” mind and “suggestion,” a hypothesized property that purportedly accounted for considerable social behaviors.

A decade later the ﬁeld had garnered enough scholarly interest to become the subject of two textbooks. William McDougall’s (1908) Introduction to Social Psychology en- gaged Darwinian theory to propose the idea of the evolution the construct of of social forms and, more speciﬁcally, instincts or innate predispositions. According to McDougall, instincts— “the springs of human action” (p. 3)—consist of cognitive, emotional, and behavioral components that have evolved to constitute the fundamental dynamics of social be- haviors and interactions. The same year, Edward A. Ross’s (1908) Social Psychology, taking a more sociological orienta- tion, proffered an interpretation of society as an aggregate of individual social actions. Ross called his combination of soci- ological and psychological precepts a “psycho-sociology.” Numerous accounts record 1908, the year of the textbooks, as the origin of the discipline. In fact, the ﬁrst two decades of the century witnessed a proliferation of studies, theories, and pronouncements on the ﬁeld. Some historians consequently labeled this interval of social psychological work as the age of schools and theories; they list among the new theory perspec- tives those of instinct, imitation, neo-Hegelian or Chicago, psychoanalytic,behaviorist,andgestalt(Faris,1937;Frumkin, 1958; Woodard, 1945). Others have depicted the era as conﬂictual, fraught with major controversies and theoretical