# Rorschach Inkblot Method

As a schoolboy in late nineteenth-century Switzerland, Hermann Rorschach (1884–1922) was known among his classmates for his skill at a popular parlor game of the day, which consisted of making blots of ink and suggesting what they look like. Rorschach’s parlor game creativity reﬂected his artistic bent, because he was a talented painter and crafts- man. Some of his work is permanently displayed in the Rorschach Archives and Museum in Bern, Switzerland. Later on, serving as a staff psychiatrist in a large mental hospital, Rorschach pondered whether he could learn something about his patients’ personality characteristics and adaptive difﬁcul- ties by studying the perceptual style they showed in looking at inkblots. His curiosity and scientiﬁc bent led him to develop a standard series of inkblots and to collect responses to them from several hundred patients and from nonpatient respondents as well. Rorschach’s analyses of the data he obtained culminated in the 1921 publication of Psycho- diagnostics (Rorschach, 1921/1942), which introduced the Rorschach Inkblot Method (RIM) in the form that the test stimuli have retained since that date.

Following Rorschach’s death at age 37, just one year after his monograph appeared, many different systems were devel- oped both in the United States and around the world for ad- ministering, coding, and interpreting Rorschach protocols. Recognizing the potential clinical and psychometric beneﬁt of integrating the most informative and dependable features of these various systems into a standardized procedure, John Exner (1993) developed the Rorschach Comprehensive Sys- tem, which since its original publication in 1974 has become the predominant way of administering and coding this instru- ment. The currently most common approach to interpreting Rorschachdatacombinesattentiontorespondents’perceptual style in formulating what they see in the inkblots with analy- ses of the thematic imagery contained in their responses and the behavioral style with which they produce these responses (see Weiner, 1998). These three data sources are then used as abasisforinferringadaptivestrengthsandweaknessesinhow people manage stress, exercise their cognitive functions, deal with affect, view themselves, and regard other people.

Periodically issues have been raised in the literature con- cerning the psychometric soundness and utility of Rorschach assessment,andthismatterispresentlythesubjectofsomede- bate.Withduerespectfordifferencesofopinion,however,the weight of empirical evidence documents the validity of the RIM when used appropriately for its intended purposes (Hiller, Rosenthal, Bornstein, Berry, & Brunell-Neuleib, 1999; Meyer & Archer, 2001; Rosenthal, Hiller, Bornstein, Berry,&Brunell-Neuleib,2001;Viglione&Hilsenroth,2001;

Weiner, 2001), and the previously referenced surveys of test usage attest its continued widespread use in practice settings.