---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: bb51536749ebc7b6bd3f142538d499d1891b18a9
title: untitled
---
# 54 Biological Psychology

nature of the reaction itself. I got interested in the physiology of the reaction and the attempt to trace conditioned reﬂex paths through the nervous system started my program of cerebral work. (Letter of May 14, 1935, K. S. Lashley to E. R. Hilgard, reproduced with the kind permission of E. R. Hilgard)

It was in the previous year, 1913, that Watson published his initial salvo in an article entitled “Psychology as the Behav- iorist Views It.” He was elected president of the American Psychological Association in 1914.

As we noted earlier, localization of function in the cere- brum was the dominant view of brain organization at the beginning of the twentieth century. In Watson’s behaviorism, the learning of a particular response was held to be the formation of a particular set of connections, a series set. Con- sequently, Lashley argued, it should be possible to localize the place in the cerebral cortex where that learned change in brain organization was stored—the engram. (It was believed at the time that learning occurred in the cerebral cortex.) Thus, behaviorism and localization of function were beauti- fully consistent—they supported the notion of an elaborate and complex switchboard where speciﬁc and localized changes occurred when speciﬁc habits were learned.

Lashley set about systematically to ﬁnd these learning locations—the engrams—in a series of studies culminating in his 1929 monograph, Brain Mechanisms of Intelligence. In this study, he used mazes differing in difﬁculty and made lesions of varying sizes in all different regions of the cerebral cortex of the rat. The results of this study profoundly altered Lashley’s view of brain organization and had an extraordi- nary impact on the young ﬁeld of physiological psychology. The locus of the lesions is unimportant; the size is critically important, particularly for the more difﬁcult mazes. These ﬁndings led to Lashley’s two theoretical notions of equipo- tentiality and mass action: that is, all areas of the cerebral cor- tex are equally important (at least in maze learning), and what is critical is the amount of brain tissue removed.

Lashley’s interpretations stirred vigorous debate in the ﬁeld. Walter Hunter, an important ﬁgure in physiological- experimental psychology at Brown University who devel- oped the delayed response task in 1913, argued that in fact the rat was using a variety of sensory cues; as more of the sensory regions of the cortex were destroyed, fewer and fewer cues became available. Lashley and his associates countered by showing that removing the eyes has much less effect on maze learning than removing the visual area of the cortex. Others argued that Lashley removed more than the vi- sual cortex. Out of this came a long series of lesion-behavior studies analyzing behavioral “functions” of the cerebral cor- tex. Beginning in the 1940s, several laboratories, including

Lashley’s and those of Harry Harlow at the University of Wisconsin and Karl Pribram at Yale, took up the search for the more complex functions of association cortex using mon- keys and humans.

Perhaps the most important single discovery in this ﬁeld came from Brenda Milner’s studies with patient H. M. who, following bilateral temporal lobectomy (removing the hip- pocampus and other structures), lives forever in the present. Work on higher brain functions in monkeys and humans is one of the key roots of modern cognitive neuroscience, to be treated later. Since Milner’s work with H. M., the hippocam- pus has been of particular interest in biological psychology. Another facet of hippocampal study in the context of the biological psychology of memory is long-term potentiation (LTP), discovered by Bliss and Lomo (1973). Brief tetanic stimulation of monosynaptic inputs to the hippocampus causes a profound increase in synaptic excitability that can persist for hours or days. Many view it as a leading candidate for a mechanism of memory storage, although direct evi- dence is still lacking.

Yet another impetus to study of the hippocampus in the re- markable discovery of “place cells” by John O’Keefe (1979). When recording from single neurons in the hippocampus of the behaving rat, a give neuron may respond only when the animal is in a particular place in the environment (i.e., in a box or maze), reliably and repeatedly. There is great interest now in the possibility that LTP may be the mechanism form- ing place cells. A number of laboratories are making use of genetically altered mice to test this possibility.

Lashley’s inﬂuence is felt strongly through the many emi- nent physiological psychologists who worked or had contact with him. We select two examples here—Austin Riesen and Donald O. Hebb. We discuss Roger W. Sperry’s work next in the context of cognitive neuroscience. The basic problem of the development of perception fascinated Lashley and his students. How is it that we come to perceive the world as we do? Do we learn from experience or is it told to us by the brain? Riesen did pioneering studies in which he raised mon- keys for periods of time in the dark and then tested their vi- sual perception. They were clearly deﬁcient.

This important work served as one of the stimuli for Hebb to develop a new theory of brain organization and function, which he outlined in The Organization of Behavior (1949). This book had an immediate and profound impact on the ﬁeld. Hebb effectively challenged many traditional notions of brain organization and attempted to pull together several dis- cordant themes—mass action and equipotentiality, effects of dark rearing on perception, the preorganization of sensory cortex, the lack of serious intellectual effects of removal of an entire hemisphere of the brain in a human child—into a

coherent theory. Important inﬂuences of Gestalt notions can be seen in Hebb’s theory. He is a connectionist but in a mod- ern sense: Connections must underlie brain organization but there is no need for them to be in series.

One concept in Hebb’s book has come to loom large (too large perhaps) in modern cognitive-computational neuro- science—the Hebb synapse:

When an axon of Cell A is near enough to excite a cell B and re- peatedly or persistently takes part in ﬁring it, some growth process or metabolic change takes place in one or both cells such that A’s efﬁciency, as one of the cells ﬁring B, is increased. (1949, p. 62)

Lashley’s pessimistic conclusions in his 1929 monograph put a real but temporary damper on the ﬁeld concerned with brain substrates of memory. But other major traditions were developing. Perhaps the most important of these was the in- ﬂuence of Pavlov. His writings were not readily available to Western scientists, particularly Americans, until the publica- tion of the English translation of his monumental work Con- ditioned Reﬂexes in 1927. It is probably fair to say this is the most important single book ever published in the ﬁeld of be- havioral neuroscience. Pavlov developed a vast and coherent body of empirical results characterizing the phenomena of conditioned responses, what he termed “psychic reﬂexes.” He argued that the mind could be fully understood by analy- sis of the higher order learned reﬂexes and their brain sub- strates. As an example of his inﬂuence, Clark Hull, in his Principles of Behavior (1943), wrote as though he were a student of Pavlov.

W. Horsley Gantt, an American physician, worked with Pavlov for several years and then established a Pavlovian laboratory at Johns Hopkins. He trained several young psy- chologists, including Roger Loucks and Wulf Brogden, who became very inﬂuential in the ﬁeld. Perhaps the most impor- tant modern behavioral analyses of Pavlovian conditioning are the works of Robert Rescorla and Allan Wagner (1972). Although Pavlov worked with salivary secretion, most studies of classical conditioning in the West tended to utilize skeletal muscle response, à la Bechterev. Particularly pro- ductive have been Pavlovian conditioning of discrete skeletal reﬂexes (e.g., the eyeblink response), characterized behaviorally by Isadore Gormezano and Allan Wagner and analyzed neuronally by Richard Thompson and his many stu- dents, showing localization of the basic memory trace to the cerebellum (Thompson, 1986). Masao Ito and associates in Tokyo had discovered the phenomenon of long-term depres- sion (LTD) in the cerebellar cortex (see Ito, 1984). Repeated conjunctive stimulation of the two major inputs to the
