# 60 Biological Psychology

landmark in the history of memory research for two reasons. First, the severe memory impairment (or amnesia) could be linked directly to the brain tissue that had been removed, sug- gesting that the medial aspect of the temporal lobe was an important region for a particular aspect of cognition, that is, memory function. Second, comprehensive testing of one of the patients (H. M.) indicated that memory impairment could occur on a background of otherwise normal cognition. This observation showed that memory is an isolatable function, separable from perception and other cognitive and intellec- tual functions.

The ﬁndings from patient H. M. (Scoville & Milner, 1957) identiﬁed a region of the brain important for human memory, that is, the medial portion of the temporal lobe. The damage was originally reported to have included the amygdala, the periamygdaloid cortex (referred to as the uncus in Scoville & Milner, 1957), the hippocampal region (referred to as the hippocampus), and the perirhinal, entorhinal, and parahip- pocampal cortices (referred to as the hippocampal gyrus). Recently, magnetic resonance imaging of patient H. M. has shown that his medial temporal lobe damage does not extend as far posteriorly as originally believed and that damage to the parahippocampal cortex is minimal (the lesion extends caudally from the temporal pole approximately 5 cm, instead of 8 cm, as originally reported; Corkin, Amaral, Gonzalez, Johnson, & Hyman, 1997).

While these observations identiﬁed the medial temporal lobe as important for memory, the medial temporal lobe is a large region including many different structures. To deter- mine which structures are important required that studies be undertaken in which the effects of damage to medial tempo- ral lobe structures could be evaluated systematically. Accord- ingly, soon after the ﬁndings from H. M. were reported, efforts were made to develop an animal model of medial tem- poral lobe amnesia. During the next 20 years, however, ﬁnd- ings from experimental animals with intended hippocampal lesions or larger lesions of the medial temporal lobe were inconsistent and difﬁcult to interpret.

In 1978, Mishkin introduced a method for testing memory in monkeys that captured an important feature of tests sensi- tive to human memory impairment (Mishkin, 1978). This method allowed for the testing of memory for single events at some delay after the event occurred. The task itself is known as the trial-unique delayed-nonmatching-to-sample task, and it measures object recognition memory. In Mishkin’s study, three monkeys sustained large medial temporal lobe lesions that were intended to reproduce the damage in patient H. M. The operated monkeys and three unoperated monkeys were given the delayed-nonmatching-to-sample task in order to as- sess their ability to remember, after delays ranging from eight

seconds to two minutes, which one of two objects they had re- cently seen. The monkeys with medial temporal lobe lesions were severely impaired on the nonmatching task, consistent withthesevereimpairmentobservedinpatientH.M.ondelay tasks. Thus, lesions that included the hippocampal region, the amygdala, as well as adjacent perirhinal, entorhinal, and parahippocampalcorticescausedseverememoryimpairment. This work, together with work carried out in the succeeding few years, established a model of human amnesia in nonhu- manprimates(Mishkin,Spiegler,&Saunders,1982;Squire& Zola-Morgan, 1983). Although other tasks have been useful for measuring memory in monkeys (object discrimination learning,thevisualpaired-comparisontask;seebelow),much of the information about the effects of damage to medial tem- poral lobe structures has come, until recently, from the delayed-nonmatching-to-sample task.

Oncetheanimalmodelwasestablished,systematicandcu- mulative work eventually identiﬁed the structures in the me- dial lobe that are important for memory. The important structures are the hippocampal region and the ad- jacent perirhinal, entorhinal, and parahippocampal cortices (for reviews, see Mishkin & Murray, 1994; Zola-Morgan & Squire, 1993). The amygdala proved not to be a component of this memory system, although it can exert a modulatory action on the kind of memory that depends on the medial tem- poral lobe system (Cahill & McGaugh, 1998).