data/clean/untitled__chunk0683.md, before:

## The Hellenistic, Roman, and Medieval Periods

The death of Aristotle’s famous pupil Alexander the Great in 323 B.C.E. marked an important shift in the nature of society and of philosophy. The era of the autonomous city-state was over; the era of great empires began. In consequence, philos- ophy moved in a more practical, almost psychotherapeutic (Nussbaum, 1994) direction. Contending schools of philoso- phy claimed to teach recipes for attaining happiness in a suddenly changed world. Considerations of epistemology and cognition faded into the background.

Nevertheless, the orientations to cognition laid down earlier remained and were developed. Those of Socrates’ students who gave up on his and Plato’s ambition to ﬁnd transcendental truths developed the philosophy of skepti- cism. They held that no belief should be regarded as certain but held only provisionally and as subject to abandonment or revision. The Cynics turned Socrates’ attack on social con- vention into a lifestyle. They deliberately ﬂouted Greek tradi- tions and sought to live as much like animals as possible. While cynicism looks much like skepticism—both attack cultural conventions as mere opinions—it did not reject Socrates’ quest for moral truth. The Cynics lived what they believed was the correct human way of life free of conven- tional falsehoods. The Neoplatonists pushed Plato’s faith in heavenly truth in a more religious direction, ultimately merg- ing with certain strands of Christian philosophy in the work of Augustine and others. Of all the schools, the most impor- tant was Stoicism, taught widely throughout the Roman Empire. Like Plato, the Stoics believed that there was a realm of Transcendental Being beyond our world of appearances, although they regarded it as like a living and evolving organ- ism, transcendent but not ﬁxed eternally like the Forms. Also like Plato, they taught that logic—reason—was the path to transcendental knowledge.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk0683.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 32d0670bc7f956ef5bf2ae1be74d64dee92acc02
title: untitled
---
# Memory

Figure 6.2 The structure of the human (sensitive and rational) soul according to Aristotle.

sensitive soul. Clearly, animals perceive the world of objects and can learn, storing experiences in memory. Humans are unique in being able to form universal concepts; dogs store memories of particular cats they have encountered but do not form the abstract concept cat. This is the function of the human soul, or mind.Aristotle drew a difﬁcult distinction be- tween active and passive mind. Roughly speaking, passive mindisthestoreofuniversalconcepts,whileactivemindcon- sists in the cognitive processes that build up knowledge of universals.Aristotle’s system anticipates Tulving’s (1972) in- ﬂuential positing of episodic and semantic memory. Aristo- tle’s memory is Tulving’s episodic memory, the storehouse of personal experiences. Aristotle’s passive mind is Tulving’s semantic memory, the storehouse of universal concepts.
