---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a044102362beb9d489cd3d3a62220c872beab862
title: untitled
---
# 72 Comparative Psychology

development and the relative roles of nature and nurture. At various stages of his career he concluded that there was either little evidence of genetic effects or that genetic and environ- mental inﬂuences were so intimately entwined that it was im- possible to separate them. Although he was able to publish some articles throughout his career, his difﬁculty in ﬁnding employment in the United States and his involvement in ad- ministrative and political turmoil in China greatly limited his inﬂuence.

Carl J. Warden completed a PhD at the University of Chicago in 1922; he spent much of his career at Columbia University. Among his contributions to the ﬁeld were his writings on the history of comparative psychology, text- books, and research. The latter often entailed use of the Columbia Obstruction Box, in which a rat had to cross a shock grid in order to reach an incentive (e.g.,Warden, 1931). The greater the intensity of the shock the animal was willing to endure, the greater was the animal’s drive believed to be. Henry W. Nissen completed a PhD with Warden at Columbia in 1929. He spent much of career working on pri- mate behavior under the inﬂuence of Yerkes, ﬁrst at Yale University and later at the Yerkes Laboratories of Primate Biology. He was the director of the latter facility from 1955 to 1958. Nissen is said to have known more about chim- panzees and their behavior than anyone else of his time but was a self-effacing psychologist whose inﬂuence was limited by his reticence. Nevertheless, his career was prominent enough to earn him election to the prestigious National Academy of Sciences of the United States.

A remarkable cluster of students worked with Lashley at the University of Chicago during the early 1930s (Dewsbury, in press-a). Norman R. F. Maier completed a PhD with Shepard at Michigan in 1928 and, after a year on the faculty at Long Island University, went to work with Lashley during 1929–1931. He then spent most of his career back at Michigan. In comparative psychology, Maier is best known for his studies of problem solving in which he suggested that rats do not learn to solve complex processes via the simple associative processes suggested by Thorndike but rather use a process of reasoning (e.g., Maier, 1937). This was part of a fairly substantial interest in cognitive approaches to behavior during the 1930s (Dewsbury, 2000). He was also interested in the abnormal behavior, including ﬁxations and seizures, that sometimes occurred in his testing situations.

Theodore C. Schneirla also completed his doctorate with Shepard at Michigan in 1928. Shepard interested Schneirla in studies of the behavior of ants, which became the focus of Schneirla’s career. In 1927, he moved to New York Uni- versity, combining his duties there with a position at the American Museum of Natural History during much of his

career. He went to work with Lashley in Chicago during 1930–1931. Schneirla was a primary exemplar of the role of ﬁeld research in comparative psychology, as he made many trips to study the complex adaptive patterns of various species of ants at many sites. He also conducted notable lab- oratory research on learning in ants. Schneirla also engaged in theory construction. He advocated a concept of integrative levels, occupied by different species. With this concept, he called for caution in generalizing across widely diverse taxa. He also was a strong advocate of the epigenetic approach to development and opposed the notion that some behavioral patterns are innate. He believed that tendencies to approach toward and withdraw from stimuli of varying intensities played an important role in development (see Aronson, Tobach, Rosenblatt, & Lehrman, 1969).

Frank A. Beach completed an MA degree at the Kansas State Teachers College in Emporia before going to Chicago to complete his doctorate. He worked with Lashley during 1933–1934, taught high school for a year, and then returned to Chicago for further graduate work. Lashley was gone by then, but Beach followed him to Harvard in 1936. He com- pleted the ﬁnal requirements for the Chicago PhD in 1940. Beach spent his career at the American Museum of Natural History, Yale University, and the University of California, Berkeley. He is probably best known today for a series of incisive articles he wrote about the state of comparative psy- chology and the conceptual foundations thereof. The best- known example is his “The Snark Was a Boojum” (Beach, 1950). Beach argued that throughout the ﬁrst half of the twentieth century, comparative psychologists had become interested in a more narrow range of behavioral patterns and progressively fewer species, primarily white rats. He suggested that this was not a healthy development. In “The Descent of Instinct” (1955), he criticized simplistic concep- tions of the concept of instinct. His research program was a broadly based attack directed primarily at the determinants of reproductive behavior. He was interested in the neural bases, endocrine correlates, evolution, development, and situational determinants of reproductive and social behavioral patterns. Isadore Krechevsky, later David Krech, studied ﬁrst at New York University but completed his doctorate with Edward C. Tolman at the University of California at Berke- ley. He then moved to the University of Chicago, initially with Lashley, where he remained from 1933 to 1937. Apolit- ical activist, he had to change afﬁliations with some fre- quency because of difﬁculties with administrators, but he spent the last part of his career, beginning in 1947, at Berke- ley. Krechevsky (1932) showed that as rats learn mazes, they appear to form “hypotheses,” systematic runs of choices gov- erned by different rules, each of which is tried as a solution

is sought. As with Maier’s work, this was part of the 1930s effort in comparative cognition.

The ﬁfth important comparatively oriented student to work with Lashley at Chicago was Donald Olding Hebb. Hebb moved to Chicago in 1934 and accompanied his men- tor to Harvard after one year. He received a Harvard PhD in 1936. He then ﬁlled positions in Canada and, in 1942, re- joined Lashley in Orange Park. In 1947, Hebb joined the fac- ulty at McGill, from which he retired in 1974. Like Lashley, Hebb is best remembered for his contributions to physiologi- cal psychology. His The Organization of Behavior (1949) was important in the reinvigoration of physiological psychology after World War II and introduced the so-called Hebb synapse to psychology. Like Beach and Schneirla, Hebb worked to- ward reinterpretation of behavioral patterns that appeared to be innate (Hebb, 1953). His comparative interests are also ap- parent in his efforts to get studies of animal social behavior more recognition in the ﬁeld of social psychology (Hebb & Thompson, 1954).

Two important comparative psychologists completed PhDs under Stone at Stanford. Harry F. Harlow completed the PhD in 1930 and spent the rest of his career at the University of Wisconsin. He spent much of his career study- ing learning in rhesus monkeys, where he developed an error factor theory, according to which the primary process during learning often involved the manner in which errors were eliminated. Harlow is best known, however, for his work on behavioral development. He found the social and reproduc- tive behavior of rhesus monkeys reared in the absence of their parents and siblings to be greatly distorted. Deﬁcits in learning were found to be much less severe. With many im- portant students educated in his program and with his editor- ial and administrative work, Harlow was a very inﬂuential comparative psychologist.

The other Stanford-Stone graduate was C. Ray Carpenter, who completed his studies in 1932 with work on endocrine inﬂuences on pigeons. He is best known, however, as the “father” of primate ﬁeld research. With the help of Yerkes, Carpenter began a series of ﬁeld studies in locations such as Panama, Southeast Asia, and India (e.g., Carpenter, 1934). He established a colony of rhesus monkeys on the island of Cayo Santiago, off Puerto Rico. This was the ﬁrst sophisti- cated work on primates in their native habitats. This ﬁeld has exploded in recent years with the work of such scientists as Jane Goodall and George Schaller. Many people are sur- prised to learn of the role of a psychologist in establishing the subdiscipline of primate ﬁeld research. Carpenter spent much of his career at the Pennsylvania State University, where he also devoted much effort to documenting studies of primates and other species on ﬁlm.
