# THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY

Unquestionably, the psychological practice environment of the twenty-ﬁrst century will be dramatically different than it is today. The speciﬁcs of change are, of course, unpre- dictable. However, at least one major trend is clear. Our nation’s health care system is just beginning to appreciate the applicability of technology, particularly computer and telecommunications technology, to the delivery of clinical services. The Institute of Medicine (IOM), which has served as a highly respected health policy “think tank” for adminis- trations and the Congress since its inception in 1970, reports that

Health care delivery has been relatively untouched by the revo- lution in information technology that has been transforming nearly every other aspect of society. The majority of patient and clinician encounters take place for purposes of exchanging clin- ical information. . . . Yet it is estimated that only a small fraction of physicians offer e-mail interaction, a simple and convenient tool for efﬁcient communication, to their patients. (Institute of Medicine, 2001, p. 15)

The number of Americans who use the Internet to retrieve health-related information is estimated to be about 70 mil- lion. Currently, over half of American homes possess com- puters, and while information presently doubles every 5 years, it will soon double every 17 days, with trafﬁc on the Web already doubling every 100 days (Jerome et al., 2000). And, at the same time, the IOM further reports that the lag between the discovery of more efﬁcacious forms of treatment and their incorporation into routine patient care is unnec- essarily long, in the range of about 15 to 20 years. Even then, adherence of clinical practice to the evidence is highly uneven.

The era of the “educated consumer” is upon us. How con- sumer expectations and the unprecedented explosion in communications technology will affect the delivery of psy- chologicalcareisyettobedetermined.Highlycomplexissues such as reimbursement for virtual therapy environments, automated diagnostic testing protocols, ensuring psychologi- cally based enriched living and long-term care environments for senior citizens and the chronically ill, not to mention ﬁnancial support for clinical graduate students, will all be debatedinthepublicpolicy(e.g.,political)arena.Professional psychology must become active participants in this critical— and ongoing—dialogue, in order to ensure the future of pro- fessional psychology, research in applied psychology, basic psychological research, and the public welfare in terms of health care and social services.