# SOCIAL HEAVENS AND THE NEW CENTURY

If the social confusions rent by the Civil War prompted new observations of the “social heavens,” as Small conjectured, then subsequent social changes certainly heightened the sense that the “social” urgently needed to be observed, un- derstood, and even corrected or improved. Stirring the social order, too, were heightened industrialization, urbanization, and immigration along with dramatic economic swings dur- ing the ﬁnal decades of the nineteenth century. In heeding such enormous changes, “the role of knowledge must be seen as potentially crucial, not only in bringing about social change, but in deﬁning identities appropriate to a changed reality” (Rosenberg, 1979, p. 443). Social phenomena as wide-scale as economic trends and international wars, along with those as minute as smiling behaviors and marital rela- tions, captured the attention of political scientists, sociolo- gists, economists, and psychologists alike. As researchers proceeded to generate novel theories and elaborate prole- gomena for research programs, their energies were dedicated to locating the causes of social processes and cataloging their variations.

InAmerica the social scientiﬁc mission, while displaying a theoretical pluralism, nevertheless shared several premises about society and individuals as social beings. These projects drew upon new notions of human nature inspired by evolu- tionary theory, studies of the unconscious, and major recon- ceptualizations of the physical universe. No longer was it assumedthathumannaturecouldbeunderstoodusingnotions

of the autonomous individual, moral sentiments, rational cog- nitions, and the unilinear causality of human action. In re- cognizing that human nature was more complex than these classic notions supposed, social scientists came to understand human action as not inherently moral, rational, autonomous, or self-conscious but rather socially interdependent, multi- causal, nonrational, and amoral (Haskell, 1977). Religion, morality, and philosophy consequently became inadequate for explaining human nature; however, although human na- turewasseenascomplex,itwasnotdeemedunknowable,and the second premise of the new social scientiﬁc projects en- tailed an unconditional belief that scientiﬁc method alone could produce valid knowledge about the social world. Fi- nally, the discovery of the complex and partially subterranean currents of human nature along with faith in scientiﬁc ratio- nality were, in the minds of most American social scientists, inextricably intertwined with commitments to social reform and human betterment (Leary, 1980; Morawski, 1982). For John Dewey (1900), then newly elected president of the American Psychological Association, the promise of a sci- ence of the laws of social life was inseparable from social change. He wrote that social psychology itself “is the recog- nition that the existing order is determined neither by fate nor by chance, but is based on law and order, on a system of existing stimuli and modes of reaction, through knowledge of which we can modify the practical outcome” (p. 313). For William McDougall (1908) social psychology would produce the “moralisation of the individual” out of the “creature in which the non-moral and purely egoistic tendencies are so much stronger than any altruistic tendencies” (p. 18). Two decades later Knight Dunlap (1928) essentially identiﬁed the ﬁeld with social remediation, calling social psychology “but a propadeutic to the real subject of ameliorating social prob- lems through scientiﬁc social control” (p. xx).

American social science, including what was to take form as social psychology, stepped onto a platform built of a sturdy scientiﬁc rationality and a curiously optimistic anticipation of scientiﬁcally guided social control. As J. W. Sprowls reﬂected in 1930, “American politics, philanthropy, industry, jurisprudence, education, and religion have demanded a science of control and prediction of human behavior, not re- quired by similar but less dynamic institutional counterparts in other countries” (p. 380). The new understandings of human nature as complex, amoral, and not entirely rational, however, could have yielded other intellectual renderings. Many European scholars constructed quite different theories, self-consciously reﬂecting upon the complexities of the un- conscious and the implications of nonlinear causality and refusing to set aside two challenging but fundamental mani- festations of human sociality: language and culture. They