---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: dae1d9fc7f872416a3e02f7899852566951bd035
title: untitled
---
# MARIA P. P. ROOT

Models of ethnic and racial identity, with few exceptions, have assumed the confabulation of race constructed by scien- tists and government—that there is such a thing as purity, much less race! Essentially race-speciﬁc trauma models, they suggest that one starts out innocently believing in a “just world” and learns by a signiﬁcant experience that there is gross injustice, particularly when it comes to the caste status for persons with phenotypes that are not solely European in origin.

None of the leading theorists of ethnic or racial identity actually believes in the purity of race, but the models inad- vertently reinforce this. Common across models is a stage of retreat to the community of origin as a place within which healing from socially and politically induced racial trauma begins. Through immersion in the race and/or ethnic group, one theoretically develops a sense of pride that will inoculate one against the injustices that do exist.

teed refuge in the minority group of origin unless we hid part of ourselves or even engaged in denigration of part of our family.

For those with Asian mothers of a different nationality, we were culture brokers yet sometimes teased within Asian American groups for acting in foreign or odd ways. In this way, nation, race, and ethnicity were terribly confused. For persons of African descent combined with any other heritage, declaring multiple allegiances or a blended identity was in- terpreted as confusion or a desire to divest oneself of black- ness. Being tested by any of our groups of origin, we were always put to more severe scrutiny or authenticity testing, and seldom considered full and true members. In effect, the oppressed joined ranks with the oppressors and inadvertently served the agenda of advancing a ﬁction of social purity and segregation of the races—the very system harmful to our ancestors.

These models assume that by virtue of your parentage and phenotype, you will be embraced, mentored, and empow- ered. These models theoretically make sense, and in the era they were produced—the end of the civil rights era or the third quarter of the twentieth century—they worked for most of the people deemed visible minorities. However, they per- petuated the invisibility and marginality of persons of mixed heritage who were not conceived from rape, slavery, or war. Inadvertently, many of them historically have become the oppressors of mixed heritage persons who do not conform to rules of hypodescent (i.e., assignment to the group, and only one group, of the lowest social status).

Notwithstanding admiring these works and the people who have produced them, I also noticed that my experience and many of my friends’ experience did not ﬁt. Born in the Korean War era in the Philippines of a Filipino mother and a white American father, this complexity of juxtaposi- tions (ethnicity, race, nationality, colonialism, gender, and class) allowed me an outsider vantage from which to examine the models that have been so foundational to some of the work on racial and ethnic identity. For many of us who are of mixed race, even in communities to which our families belonged or were assigned, we were intruders or suspected as potential betrayers of “the race.” To belong, we had less room in which to express our individuality or the unique way in which blending inﬂuenced us. Thus, we did not have guaran-

Several classic dissertations were completed in the 1980s and formed the core for the contemporary theory and work on what constitutes normative experience and development for persons of mixed heritage. These dissertations largely came out of the discipline of psychology and were groundbreaking works of scholarship and data production (e.g., C. I. Hall, 1980; Jacobs, 1977; Murphy-Shigematsu, 1986; Thornton, 1983). They were difﬁcult to accomplish because of the lack of literature on the topic, the lack of random distribution of mixed race people in the population, the few numbers of persons identiﬁed as mixed race, and the methods required to gain large enough samples for analysis. What changed within a decade of the youngest of these dissertations was the interdisciplinary interest in mixed race identity production and meaning. There were suddenly more young scholars of mixed heritage and the foundation had been laid in the ﬁrst of two books I edited to make these pieces of research and others available (Root, 1992, 1996b).

My initial work on mixed race identity undertook a departure from stage models, as many of the previous re- searchers had done. I proposed four different types of identi- ties that persons of mixed heritage may express at different times in their life: (a) identify as a single race according to rules of hypodescent; (b) identify as a single race for personal and or political congruence; (c) identify as multiple races; or (d) identify as a new race. Rather than being proposed as a

503
