# The Second Wave (c. 1970–the Present)

The second wave of feminism sparked strong challenges to psychology’s ideas about women. Feminists in psychology openly challenged psychology’s choice of research topics, its theoretical constructs and research methods, and its theo- ries about women’s mental health, its modes of diagnosis, and its therapeutic interventions. From a feminist perspec- tive, many aspects of psychological knowledge have been androcentric (that is, male-centered). Historically, men have been studied much more often than women have. For exam- ple, classic studies of personality by Murray (1938) and Allport (1954), as well as McClelland’s landmark study of achievement motivation (McClelland, Atkinson, Clark, & Lowell, 1953), excluded women. Moreover, psychological theories about many aspects of cognition, social behavior, emotion, and motivation have been inﬂuenced by cultural biases against women (Crawford & Unger, 1994). Women’s behavior has often been judged against an unacknowledged norm based on white, middle-class men. Women’s behavior, more often than men’s, has been seen as biologically deter- mined, with researchers overlooking the different social situ- ations of women and men.

Feminist psychologists quickly moved beyond critique to focus on generating new knowledge about women and gen- der. The psychology of women and gender is now a varied enterprise that encompasses virtually every specialty area and intellectual framework within psychology, that spans international boundaries, and that has produced a large body of research and scholarship. Our goal in this chapter is to describe and evaluate representative approaches to research in the ﬁeld.