---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9bad807998bd6ca2b2c1912a2266536a4759fd81
title: untitled
---
# 16 Psychology as a Science

December 1906 in conjunction with the American Associa- tion for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) led to an outcry by antivivisectionists. He was publicly defended by Angell and by then APA president James Mark Baldwin (Dewsbury, 1990).

Watson had become disenchanted with the language of consciousness and mind, with the method of introspection, and was increasingly concerned about the status of animal research in psychology. Writing to fellow comparative psy- chologist Robert Mearns Yerkes in 1910, Watson expressed his identity problems: “I am a physiologist and I go so far as to say that I would remodel psychology as we now have it (human) and reconstruct our attitude with reference to the whole matter of consciousness. I don’t believe the psychol- ogist is studying consciousness any more than we are” (Watson, 1910, cited in J. A. Mills, 1998, p. 60).

In a series of lectures given at Columbia University in December 1912, Watson laid out his discomfort with a psy- chology of consciousness and proposed a psychology of behavior to take its place: “Psychology as the behaviorist viewsit...isapurelyobjectiveexperimentalbranchofnatural science. Its theoretical goal is the prediction and control of behavior. Introspection forms no essential part of its methods, noristhescientiﬁcvalueofitsdatadependentonthereadiness with which they lend themselves to interpretation in terms of consciousness” (Watson, 1913, p. 158). Although this so- called “Behaviorist Manifesto” did not produce a revolution in psychology (Leahey, 1992; Samelson, 1981), it did help to raise the status of animal research and place a greater empha- sis on explaining behavior rather than mind, especially in re- search on animals (Watson, 1914). Watson’s notion that the goal of psychology was to predict and control behavior incor- porated the vision of psychology as a tool for social control and, therefore, its application to education, industry, and other areas of applied psychology (e.g., Buckley, 1982). Titchener accused Watson of turning psychology into a technology ratherthanascience(Samelson,1981).Buttechnologyornot, Watson’s view of science as requiring reliability of observa- tions, public and repeatable, vitiated introspection as a scien- tiﬁcmethod.Watsonarguedthatverbalreportstoastimulus,in apsychophysicalexperiment,suchas“Iseered,”werebehav- ioral in the same way that an animal might be trained to dis- criminate the color red from other colors (Watson, 1919).

J. B. Watson (1916) proposed that the conditioned motor reﬂex could be applied to animals and humans and thus form the building block of behavior. Like Titchener, Watson believed that science proceeded by analysis, but instead of the elements of mind, Watson sought the elements of behav- ior. The conditioned reﬂex was the elemental unit from which Watson proposed to build a science of behavior.

The study of reﬂexes has a long history within physiology (Boakes, 1984; Fearing, 1930). The Bell-Magendie law (Boakes, 1984; Goodwin, 1999) distinguished between the sen- sory and motor nerves at the level of the spinal cord. This dis- tinction set the stage for an understanding of reﬂex action and stimulated research on the nature and speed of conduction of the nerve impulse that led to the studies of reaction time by Jo- hannes Müller and Hermann von Helmholtz. Russian physiolo- gist Ivan Mikhailovich Sechenov (1829–1905) demonstrated that cerebral processes could affect reﬂexive action by stim- ulating certain areas of the brain with salt crystals to decrease the intensity of reﬂexive movement of a frog’s leg (Boakes, 1984; Koshtoyants, 1965). Sechenov (1863–1965) argued that the cause of psychical or psychological events is in the environment; external sensory stimulation produces all acts, conscious and unconscious, through the summation of excita- tory and inhibitory activity in the brain. He suggested that a science of psychology based on introspective reports of hu- mans is too complex and too subject to “the deceptive sugges- tions of the voice of our consciousness. . . . [O]nly physiology holds the key to the scientiﬁc analysis of psychical phenomena” (Sechenov, 1973 cited in Leahey, 2001, p. 216; see also, Boakes, 1984).

Ivan Petrovich Pavlov (1849–1936) was able to instantiate Sechenov’s theoretical claims (Koshtoyants, 1965). Pavlov’s research on the physiology of digestion that earned him the Nobel Prize in 1904 involved a method of “sham feeding” in which a ﬁstula, or tube, in the esophagus prevented food placed in the mouth of the dog from reaching the stomach. A second tube inserted into the stomach was used to collect gas- tric juices. In the course of these experiments, Pavlov noted that gastric secretions occurred not only in response to food in the mouth but also merely to the sight of food, or of the assistant who usually fed the animal. He called these “psychic secretions.” By using a ﬁstula that could collect salivary se- cretions for the studies on digestion, Pavlov’s student Stefan Vul’fson noted that not only did the salivary glands respond differently to different substances placed in the mouth, for ex- ample, sand, wet food, dry food, but, unlike other digestive organs, they showed the identical response when the dog was teased by only the sight of the substance (Boakes, 1984; Todes, 1997). Vul’fson and Pavlov used mentalistic terms in describing the reaction of the salivary glands to the sight of food: Dogs “judged,” “sorted out,” or “chose” their responses (Todes, 1997, p. 950).

Pavlov later changed “psychic reﬂex,” to “conditional reﬂex,” after experiments demonstrated the experimental regularity of what his co-worker Tolochinov referred to as a “reﬂex at a distance” (Todes, 1997, p. 951). Drawing on Sechenov’s early experiments with inhibition of spinal

reﬂexes, the work in Pavlov’s laboratory focused on the establishment (conditioning) and removal (extinction) of reﬂexes to a variety of stimuli and their control by excitatory and inhibitory activity in the brain. Other investigators who explored questions of adaptation of organisms to environ- ments paid more attention to the acquisition of new behavior than to the removal of established behaviors (Boakes, 1984). J. B. Watson attempted to demonstrate how research on conditioned reﬂexes could reveal the origins of complex behavior patterns. In his most famous experiment, conducted with graduate student Rosalie Rayner, he conditioned emo- tional responses in an 11-month-old infant, “Albert B.” By striking a steel bar with a hammer, Watson and Rayner were able to elicit crying in the infant; when they subsequently paired presentation of a white rat, to whichAlbert had shown no fear, with the striking of the bar,Albert showed fear to the rat. They reported successfully conditioning fear of the rat in Albert, and, further, the fear generalized to a rabbit, a dog, a fur coat, and a Santa Claus mask (J. B. Watson & Rayner, 1920; see Harris, 1979). The study was more a dramatic demonstration than a carefully controlled experiment, but nevertheless exempliﬁed Watson’s vision for identifying the origins and development of behavior and provided an approach to the study of the growth and development of chil- dren (Mateer, 1918).
