# 162 Emotion

the injection of adrenaline—emotional states do not seem to follow as a matter of course.

HistoryhasbeenkindertoCannonthantoJames.Cannon’s ﬁrst point turned out to be essentially correct. However, there isevidencethatseparatingtheviscerafromthecentralnervous system signiﬁcantly interferes with at least the acquisition of emotionalbehavior.Argumentshavealsobeenmadethateven intheabsenceoftheviscera,thereareothersystems,including theskeletalsystem,thatmaysubservetheJamesianfunctions. Cannon was quite right as far as points (2) and (3) are con- cerned; there is no evidence that different emotional states or behaviors are antecedently caused by different visceral states. Much heat has been generated by this argument in subsequent years, but still no causal evidence is available. Evidence that has been cited about the differential conditioning of various autonomicfunctions,orevendifferentialrespondingindiffer- ent parts of the autonomic system, is not relevant to this argu- ment, since the Jamesian argument is about different causally implicated patterns of the autonomic system—different emo- tions are caused by different organic patterns. As far as point (4) is concerned, the argument is somewhat similar to point (1). Cannon is right in general, but other mechanisms such as conditioned skeletal responses and autonomic imagery may serve to bridge the gap and explain the phenomena, such as rapid reactions to painful stimuli or autonomic “perceptions” with very short reaction times, that the subjective evidence suggests.AsforCannon’sﬁfthpoint,theevidencecitedbelow shows that visceral changes produced by artiﬁcial means are not sufﬁcient to produce emotional states, but that their pres- ence certainly is an important condition for emotional experi- ence in conjunction with other cognitive factors. In any case, Cannon’s ﬁve criticisms were important enough to generate extensive and inﬂuential research on the points of disputation between James-Lange and Cannon.