---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 287bc3d7a4fe8736604d5424086f1ae036920a19
title: untitled
---
# Information

The concept of information is now so familiar to us that we take it for granted. But in fact it is a subtle concept that engi- neers building the ﬁrst computers recognized by the middle of the twentieth century (MacKay, 1969). We have already seen howTolman could have used it to better understand the nature of reward and punishment. Before the advent of the computer, information was hard to separate from its physical embodi- ment in parchment or printed pages. Today, however, the sep- aration of information from physical embodiment is a threat to publishers because the content of a book may be scanned and digitized and then accessed by anyone for free. Of course, I could lend someone a book for free, but then I would no longer have its information, but if I share the information itself on a disk or as a download, I still have it, too. The closest the premodern world came to the concept of informa- tion was the idea, but looking back from our modern vantage point we can see that philosophers tended to assume ideas had to have some kind of existence, either in a transcendent realm apart from the familiar material world, as in Plato, or in a substantial (though nonphysical) soul, Descartes’res cog- itans. Realists denied that ideas existed, the upshot being Skinnerian radical behaviorism, which can tolerate the idea of information no more than the idea of a soul.

The concept of information allows us to give a more gen- eral formulation of feedback. What’s important to a feedback system is its use of information, not its mode of physical operation. The thermostat again provides an example. Most traditional thermostats contain a strip of metal that is really two metals with different coefﬁcients of expansion. The strip then bends or unbends as the temperature changes, turning the heat pump on or off as it closes or opens an electrical cir- cuit. Modern buildings, on the other hand, often contain sensors in each room that relay information about room tem-

perature to a central computer that actually operates the heat pump. Nevertheless, each system embodies the same infor- mational feedback loop.

This fact seems simple, but it is in fact of extraordinary importance. We can think about information as such, com- pletely separately from any physical embodiment. My de- scription of a thermostat in the preceding section implicitly depended on the concept of information, as I was able to explain what any thermostat does without reference to how any particular thermostat works. My description of the older steam engine governor, however, depended critically on its actual physical operation.

In any information system we ﬁnd a kind of dualism. On the one hand, we have a physical object such as a book or thermostat. On the other hand, we have the information it holds or the information processes that guide its operation. The information in the book can be stored in print, in a com- puter’s RAM, on a hard-drive, in bubble memory, or be ﬂoat- ing about the World Wide Web. The information ﬂows of a thermostat can be understood without regard to how the ther- mostat works. This suggests, then, that mind can be under- stood as information storage (memory) and processes (memory encoding and retrieval, and thinking). Doing so respects the insight of dualism, that mind is somehow inde- pendent of body, without introducing all the problems of a substantial soul. Soul is information.

The concept of information opened the way for a new cognitive psychology. One did not need to avoid the mind, as methodological behaviorists wanted, nor did one have to expunge it, as metaphysical behaviorists wanted. Mind was simply information being processed by a computer we only just learned we had, our brains, and we could theorize about information ﬂows without worrying about how the brain ac- tually managed them. Broadbent’s Perception and Communi- cation (1958), Neisser’s Cognitive Psychology (1967), and Atkinson and Shiffrin’s “Human Memory: A Proposed Sys- tem and Its Control Processes” (1968) were the manifestos of the information-processing movement. Broadbent critically proposed treating stimuli as information, not as physical events. Neisser’s chapters described information ﬂows from sensation to thinking. Atkinson and Shiffrin’s model of infor- mation ﬂow (Figure 6.3) became so standard that it’s still found in textbooks today, despite signiﬁcant changes in the way cognitive psychologists treat the details of cognition (Izawa, 1999).

Information from the senses is ﬁrst registered in near- physical form by sensory memory. The process of pattern recognition assigns informational meaning to the physical stimuli held in sensory memory. Concomitantly, attention fo- cuses on important streams of information, attenuating or
