---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0bfbe6ab78f621e97d7b932ae82b9e6422d68704
title: untitled
---
# Bender Gestalt

Best known among the earliest formal psychological assess- ment methods constructed to measure brain functions was the Bender Visual Motor Gestalt Test, ﬁrst described by Lauretta Bender (1897–1987) in 1938 (Bender, 1938). Historical lore has it that Bender, then a psychiatrist at Bellevue Hospital in New York, became intrigued by psychomotor differences she observed among children as they made chalk drawings on the city sidewalks in preparation for playing hopscotch. She noted that some of the children were more skillful than others in executing these drawings. By and large, older children were better at it than younger ones, but some older chil- dren appeared to have persistent difﬁculty in drawing the hopscotch designs accurately. These observations led Bender to conclude that Gestalt principles of visual organization

and perception, as reﬂected in the drawing of designs, could be applied to identifying individual differences in matura- tion and detecting forms of organic brain disease and psy- chopathology. Selecting for her test nine designs that had been developed by Wertheimer, she presented in her 1938 text illustrations of how these designs were likely to be copied by normally developing children age 4 to 11 and by normal, brain-damaged, and emotionally disturbed adults.

The Bender Gestalt test has fared both well and poorly since 1946, when the stimulus cards were ﬁrst published sep- arately from Bender’s book and made generally available for professional use. Among important reﬁnements of the test, Pascal and Suttell (1951) developed an extensive scoring sys- tem for identifying brain dysfunction in adults, and Koppitz (1975) undertook a large standardization study in the 1960s to construct a scoring scheme that would measure both cog- nitive maturation and neuropsychological impairment in children. Lacks (1998) later proposed a simpliﬁed 12-item criterion list that has proved fairly accurate in differentiating brain-damaged from neuropsychologically intact adults. The Bender Gestalt also became and has remained very popular among assessment psychologists as a screening device for brain dysfunction in adults and for developmental delay in young people. In the recent test use surveys mentioned previ- ously, this instrument was ranked ﬁfth in frequency of use among samples of clinical psychologists (Camara et al., 2000) and experienced professionals conducting child cus- tody evaluations (Ackerman & Ackerman, 1997), and seventh among forensic examiners experienced in neuropsychology (Lees-Haley et al., 1995).

On the other hand, with respect to its faring poorly, the Bender was reported as being used by only 27% of sampled members of the International Neuropsychological Society (Butler et al., 1991), and a sample of the NationalAcademy of Neuropsychologists membership ranked the Bender 25th in frequency among the measures they use (Camara et al., 2000). The apparent disrepute of the Bender among main- stream neuropsychologists, despite its extensive research base, may have several origins. These include (a) its having been developed prior to the emergence of neuropsychological assessment as a well-deﬁned practice specialty, which began in the 1950s; (b) its having typically been interpreted by prac- titioners on the basis of their subjective impressions rather than one of the available scoring systems for it; and (c) its fre- quently having been given more credence than was warranted as a deﬁnitive and stand-alone indicator of cognitive insufﬁ- ciency or brain dysfunction. Particularly relevant in this last regard is the fact that, although the Bender provides useful information concerning aspects of visual organization and perceptual-motor coordination, it does not encompass the

broad range of cognitive processes that constitute neuropsy- chological functioning. Sufﬁciently broad measurement to warrant neuropsychological inferences awaited the develop- ment of test batteries designed for this purpose.
