# Other Characteristics

In some respects, the textbooks were the only bright spot in the institutionalization of comparative psychology during the period between the wars. One problem was that of deﬁnition, a difﬁculty that still affects the ﬁeld today. There was clearly a cadre of comparative psychologists of the sort included by my deﬁnition. The term comparative psychology, however, was used in a variety of ways. Often, it referred to all animal psychology. Important work was being done in the ﬁelds of animal learning and cognition during this period. Much of the work, however, was done within a more process-oriented framework than most work in comparative psychology as de- ﬁned here. Similarly, numerous physiological studies were conducted. The true comparative tradition was obscured, in part, because the ﬁeld lacked a clearly differentiating name, clear deﬁnition, and less permeable boundaries.

A landmark was the beginning of the publication of the Journal of Comparative Psychology in 1922. The ﬁeld had had other journals, including the Journal of Comparative Neurology and Psychology (1904–1910), the Journal of Ani- mal Behavior (1911–1917), and Psychobiology (1917–1920). With the Journal of Comparative Psychology, however, the ﬁeld ﬁnally appeared to have a named journal to provide unity for the discipline. However, it was not to be. The journal be- came one of animal psychology and the primary vehicle for the publication of research in all ﬁelds of animal psychology, thus muddying the deﬁnitional problem even further. Indeed, during the 1920s, the Journal of Comparative Psychology in- cluded a signiﬁcant number of studies of human behavior (Dewsbury, 1998).

A complete perspective on comparative psychology re- quires consideration of its ﬂaws as well as its accomplish- ments. Some of the writings of the time appear to be racist, at least by contemporary standards. The early volumes of the Journal of Comparative Psychology included numerous arti- cles on race differences regarding performance on intelligence

tests, emotional traits, and physical development. In addition, Watson (1919) wrote that “psychologists persistently main- tain that cleanliness is instinctive, in spite of the ﬁlth of the negro, of the savage, and of the child” (p. 260), and Yerkes (1925) wrote that “certainly these three types of ape [chim- panzees, orangutans, and gorillas] do not differ more obvi- ously than do such subdivisions of mankind as the American Indian, the Caucasian, and the Negro” (p. 56). There are many aspects of the history of comparative psychology that are wor- thy of pride; a balanced view must include aspects lacking in such worth.

Perhaps underlying the looseness of organization of com- parative psychology was a lack of identity among the leaders in the ﬁeld. Although all would probably have accepted the title of comparative psychologist, there was no sense of unity or effort to differentiate their work from that of other animal psychologists who often were included as “comparative psy- chologists.” There was no unifying theory of the sort devel- oped by the followers of B. F. Skinner. There was no agenda of the sort later promulgated by the European ethologists. Most comparative psychologists of the era were independent- minded individuals concerned with doing their research, re- porting it at existing meetings, and publishing it in mainline journals. There were no efforts to form new organizations or otherwise band together to deﬁne the developing tradition with any precision. As a result, the individual researchers gained respect and prestige for their efforts but they lacked real inﬂuence as a group. The subdiscipline that seems so clear in retrospect was not developed as an entity.