# The Early Scientiﬁc Period 119

humanlike than Descartes had, and therefore as capable of some forms of cognition. This was the approach taken by the ﬁrst generation of animal psychologists beginning with George John Romanes (1848–1894). They sought to detect signs of mental life and consciousness in animals, attributing consciousness, cognition, and problem-solving abilities to even very simple creatures (Romanes, 1883). While experi- ments on animal behavior were not eschewed, most of the data Romanes and others used were anecdotal in nature.

Theoretically, inferring mental processes from behavior presented difﬁculties. It is tempting to attribute to animals complex mental processes they may not possess, as we imag- ineourselvesinsomeanimal’spredicamentandthinkourway out. Moreover, attribution of mental states to animals was complicated by the prevailing Cartesian equation of mentality with consciousness.The idea of unconscious mental states, so widely accepted today, was just beginning to develop, primar- ily in German post-Kantian idealism, but it was rejected by psychologists, who were followers of empiricism or realism (Ash, 1995). In the Cartesian framework, to attribute complex mental states to animals was to attribute to them conscious thoughts and beliefs, and critics pointed out that such infer- ences could not be checked by introspection, as they could be in humans. (At this same time, the validity of human intro- spective reports was becoming suspect, as well, strengthening critics’ case again the validity of mentalist animal psychol- ogy; see Leahey, 2000.)

C. Lloyd Morgan (1852–1936) tried to cope with these problems with his famous canon of simplicity and by an innovative attempt to pry apart the identiﬁcation of mentality with consciousness. Morgan (1886) distinguished objective inferences from projective—or, as he called them in the philosophical jargon of his time, ejective—inferences from animal behavior to animal mind. Imagine watching a dog sit- ting at a street corner at 3:30 one afternoon. As a school bus approaches, the dog gets up, wags its tail, and watches the bus slow down and then stop. The dog looks at the children get- ting off the bus and, when one boy gets off, it jumps on him, licks his face, and together the boy and the dog walk off down the street. Objectively, Morgan would say, we may infer cer- tain mental powers possessed by the dog. It must possess suf- ﬁcient perceptual skills to pick out one child from the crowd getting off the bus, and it must possess at least recognition memory, for it responds differently to one child among all the others. Such inferences are objective because they do not in- volve analogy to our own thought processes. When we see an old friend, we do not consciously match up the face we see with a stored set of remembered faces, though it is plain that such a recognition process must occur. In making an objec- tive inference, there is no difference between our viewpoint