# 310 Abnormal Psychology

of students going to medical school in Alexandria and the dramatic increase in those entering the priesthood during the early years of the spread of Christianity. After the fall of Alexandria in 642, knowledge of Greek medicine and other aspects of Greek learning were preserved by Byzantine and Arab authors who translated and further elaborated them. These writings were later translated into Latin in Europe, and as a consequence Galen’s doctrines came to dominate med- ical theory in the western world until well into the eighteenth century.

The humoral theory provided a basis for understanding individual differences in character and patterns of behavior. Although Galen is credited with having emphasized the sig- niﬁcance of temperament, Leicester (1974) points out that he did not name the temperamental types applied in the twelfth century by Honorius of Autun who identiﬁed them as san- guine, melancholic, choleric, and phlegmatic. By this time temperament had come to refer to characteristic psychologi- cal dispositions. Both bodily characteristics and personal traits were believed to be determined within broad limits by an individual’s characteristic balance of humors; therefore, to assess body type was to obtain information usefully corre- lated with character. Although the humoral theory was ﬁnally abandoned, the concept of balance of bodily processes as an explanation for a wide range of complex psychological and physiological phenomena is still useful today. For example, the concept of pneuma or animal spirits was a forerunner of our current knowledge that the impulses of the brain are electrical and transmitted by nerve ﬁbers through the bio- chemical substances known as neurohumors, most recently called neurotransmitters. Classical ideas about melancholer and its correlation with melancholia are precursors of current hypotheses about the causes of serious depressive and schiz- ophrenic disorders.