# 42 Psychology as a Profession

proposal within the psychological community and extreme opposition within the local psychiatric community (DeLeon, Fox, & Graham, 1991). This, however, was to be the begin- ning of psychology’s prescriptive authority (RxP-) quest.

In 1989, the APA Board of Professional Affairs (BPA) held a special retreat to explore the issues surrounding psy- chology obtaining RxP- authority. It concluded by strongly endorsing immediate research and study regarding the feasi- bility and the appropriate curricula in psychopharmacology so that psychologists might provide broader service to the public and more effectively meet the psychological and mental health needs of society. Further, the BPA also recom- mended that focused attention on the responsibility of prepar- ing the profession to address current and future needs of the public for psychologically managed psychopharmacological interventions be made APA’s highest priority. Interestingly, in the 1970s, the APAboard of directors had appointed a special committee to review this very matter. The recommendation at that time was that psychology not pursue prescription privi- leges, primarily since the ﬁeld was doing so well without that authority! (DeLeon, Sammons, & Fox, 2000).

At the APA annual convention in Boston in 1990, the mo- tion to establish an ad hoc Task Force on Psychopharmacol- ogy was approved by a vote of 118 to 2. Their report back to council in 1992 concluded that practitioners with combined training in psychopharmacology and psychosocial treatments could be viewed as a new form of health care professional, expected to bring to health care delivery the best of both psy- chological and pharmacological knowledge. Further, the pro- posed new provider possessed the potential to dramatically improve patient care and make important new advances in treatment (Smyer et al., 1993).

On June 17, 1994, APA president Bob Resnick was for- mally recognized during the graduation ceremonies at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center for the ﬁrst two Depart- ment of Defense (DoD) Psychopharmacology Fellows, Navy Commander John Sexton and Lt. Commander Morgan Sammons. This program had been directed by the Fiscal Year 1989 Appropriations bill for the Department of Defense (P.L. 100–463) (U.S. Department of Defense, 1988) and would ultimately graduate 10 fellows. Upon their graduation, each of these courageous individuals became active within the practitioner community, demonstrating to their col- leagues that psychologists can indeed readily learn to provide high-quality psychopharmacological care. Several of the graduates have become particularly involved in providing consultation to evolving postdoctoral psychopharmacology training programs. All of the external evaluations of the clinical care was provided by the DoD Fellows (ACNP, Summer, 2000).

At its August 1995 meeting in New York City, the APA Council of Representatives formally endorsed prescriptive privileges for appropriately trained psychologists and called for the development of model legislation and a model train- ing curriculum. The follow year in Toronto, the council adopted both a model prescription bill and a model training curriculum. Those seeking this responsibility should possess at least 300 contact hours of didactic instruction and have supervised clinical experience with at least 100 patients requiring psychotropic medication. In 1997, the APAGS adopted a “resolution of support” for the APA position. And, that same year, at the Chicago convention, the council autho- rized the APACollege of Professional Psychology to develop an examination in psychopharmacology suitable for use by state and provincial licensing boards. This exam became available in the spring of 2000. As of the summer of 2001, approximately 50 individuals had taken the examination, which covers 10 predetermined distinct knowledge areas.

By late 2001, the APA Practice Directorate reported that RxP- bills had been introduced in 13 states and that the APA Council had demonstrated its support for the agenda by allo- cating contingency funding totaling $86,400 over 5 ﬁscal years. In its February 2001 reexamination of the top priorities for APA’s future, the APA Council of Representatives had placed advocacy for prescription privileges as number six of 21 ranked priorities for the association. While no comprehen- sive bill has yet passed, the U.S. territory of Guam has passed legislation authorizing appropriately trained psychologists to prescribe in the context of a collaborative practice arrange- ment with a physician. During the spring of 2001, a psycholo- gists’ prescriptive authority bill only very narrowly missed passage in New Mexico, successfully making it through two House committees, the full House, and a Senate commit- tee. Further, we would note that a reading of an amendment to the Indiana Psychology Practice Act, which passed in 1993, indicates that psychologists participating in a federal government–sponsored training or treatment program may prescribe. Thirty-one state psychological associations cur- rently have prescription privileges task forces engaged in somephaseoftheRxP-agenda.PatrickH.DeLeonhashadthe pleasure of serving as the commencement speaker for three postdoctoral masters’ psychopharmacology graduations (in Louisiana, Texas, and Florida). By the summer of 2001, co- horts of psychopharmacology classes had also graduated in Georgia (two separate classes), Hawaii, and New Mexico, withadditionalcohortsenrolledinseveraldifferentstates.The PrescribingPsychologists’Register(PPR)alsoreportshaving graduated a signiﬁcant number of students. Psychology’s RxP- agenda is steadily advancing (DeLeon, Robinson- Kurpius, & Sexton, 2001; DeLeon &Wiggins, 1996).