# Subsequent Professional Developments 347

there was more to it than that. After the ﬁrst burst of post- war growth had waned, some universities (e.g., Chicago and Northwestern)haddroppedtheirclinicalprogramsandalmost allcollegeshadfarmoreapplicantsthantheycouldaccept;this alarmed some clinicians into thinking their profession would notbeviableuntiltherewereindependentschoolsforthetrain- ing of clinical psychologists. The alarm proved unjustiﬁed, as the number of graduate training programs in clinical psychol- ogy at universities has continued to increase.As of June 2001, some 50 years afterAPAapproval began, 202 programs were approved or regularly monitored for approval. (Courtesy of Tia Scales at the Education Directorate of the American Psy- chologicalAssociation.) In addition, 53 free-standing schools wereproducingclinicians(twowerecounselingprograms).In August 1976, these schools banded together into an organiza- tion of their own, the National Council of Schools of Profes- sional Psychology, in order to ensure that their interests were pursued and protected (Stricker & Cummings, 1992).

The trend toward state certiﬁcation and licensure of psy- chologists reached something like a conclusion when Missouri in 1977 became the last state to enact licensing legislation—though concerns remained about the revocation of laws and legal challenges to them. Clinicians themselves used legal suits to gain admission privileges in hospitals and to be counted as part of medical staffs. Their goals were to compel medical insurance companies to reimburse them for their services and (in 1988 in Welch et al. v. American Psy- choanalytic Association et al.) to force an end to the restric- tions imposed on lay analysts and their training and practice. Often the APA was involved in this litigation, attesting to a growing involvement in professional issues both within that organization and among clinical psychologists.

In the days of NIMH training grants to PhD programs in clinical psychology, it was considered a policy failure for graduates to enter into independent private practice. Indeed, most of those PhDs took public-sector jobs, whether in teach- ing, at the VA, or in community mental health centers. That is no longer the case. More and more clinical psychologists are in private practice, and they have promoted the passage of freedom-of-choice legislation, mandating that if insurance companies pay psychiatrists for psychotherapy, they must do the same for clinical psychologists. In a world of managed care, clinical psychologists ﬁnd themselves competing vigor- ously for their share of the market. To aid third-party payers in determining which psychologists merit reimbursement, a National Register of Health Service Providers was developed by Carl Zimet and others. To be listed in the register, a psy- chologist must hold a state license or certiﬁcation, have suc- cessfully completed at least 1 year of internship, and must have 2 years of supervised experience in a health setting.