# 346 Clinical Psychology

Clinical Psychology (Shakow, 1965). This committee rec- ommended that courses for clinicians should include psy- chotherapy and psychodynamics, with coursework in related areas—forexample,anthropology,medicine,andsociology— germane to the particular student.These recommendations ap- peared to extend the duration of graduate education beyond theboundsofwhatwasseemly,soin1949theAPAheldacon- ference in Boulder, Colorado, to discuss training policies in clinical psychology.

The Boulder Conference had 73 attendees, most of whom were intimately involved in the graduate education of clini- cians. It was the ﬁrst national meeting to consider standards for their doctoral training. Basically, the conference decided to endorse a solid grounding in science and practice, and this scientist-practitioner role for the clinical psychologist came to be called the Boulder model. (It reﬂected David Shakow’s own background, which included a lengthy research-clinical apprenticeship at Worcester State Hospital in Massachusetts, a personal psychoanalysis undertaken in part to prepare for research in that area, and a career dedicated largely to studies of motor performance and attentional deﬁcits in schizophre- nia, both before and after he became chief psychologist at NIMH.) Despite its endorsement of the scientist-practitioner model, the Boulder Conference also urged graduate schools to be ﬂexible and innovative in their training (Benjamin & Baker, 2000; Raimy, 1950). Of most signiﬁcance was that psychotherapy or treatment became an essential component in the training of the clinical psychologist.

Since it is rare to ﬁnd unanimity about anything, not all clinicians welcomed this change in their profession. Hans Eysenck (1949), for one, spoke against it. He gave three rea- sons why it would be better for clinicians not to become ther- apists: Treatment is a medical problem; training in therapy reduces the time available for training in research and diagno- sis; and becoming a psychotherapist biases the clinician from studying its effectiveness objectively. His comments, how- ever, had little immediate impact, and most students of clini- cal psychology saw the learning of psychotherapy as the sine qua non of their graduate education.

While there was concern about standards and models, there was explosive growth in the profession. From a handful of universities offering graduate training in clinical psychol- ogy before the war, the number grew to 22 by 1947, 42 by 1949. Each of these programs reported it had far more appli- cants than it could accommodate. This interest in clinical psychology was spurred by a growing interest in psychologi- cal matters in the culture through movies, literature, news- paper accounts, art, self-help books, and so on. At the same time, clinical psychologists were beginning a national drive for legal recognition and protection of their ﬁeld.

Within the states, legislators were being asked to enact licensing and certiﬁcation laws for psychologists. Acertiﬁca- tion law restricts the use of the title “psychologist” by speci- fying the criteria that must be met by those who wish to use it. A licensing law restricts the performance of certain activi- ties to members of a speciﬁc profession. Because some of the activities of clinicians overlap with some of the activities of other professions, the APA favored certiﬁcation over licens- ing legislation. The ﬁrst state to enact a certiﬁcation law for psychologists was Connecticut in 1945; it restricted the title of psychologist to those who had a PhD and a year of profes- sional experience. In 1946, Virginia enacted a certiﬁcation law for clinical psychologists that required the PhD and 5 years of professional experience.

The passage of this legislation often encountered stiff re- sistance from the medical profession. Many psychiatrists, such as William Menninger, respected clinical psychologists and felt they had a major contribution to give to the psychi- atric team through their diagnostic testing and research. Ac- cording to this view, clinical psychologists could even do psychotherapy under medical supervision, but they should be barred from the private practice of treatment because they lacked the keen sense of responsibility felt by physicians for their patients (Menninger, 1950).

Recognizing that certiﬁcation or licensure by the states would be a difﬁcult, lengthy process, it was decided in 1946 to establish a kind of certiﬁcation by the profession, and thus was created the American Board of Examiners in Profes- sional Psychology (ABEPP). The board consisted of nine APA fellows who served 3-year terms, set and administered standards for professional competence, and awarded diplo- mas that signiﬁed professional recognition of the quali- ﬁcations of the applicant. At its inception, these standards required the applicant to have: a doctorate in psychology; APA membership; satisfactory moral, ethical, and profes- sional standing; 5 years of professional experience; and pass- ing scores on written and oral evaluations that included samples of the applicant’s diagnostic and therapeutic skills. In 1949, the ﬁrst ABEPP written examinations were held. (Subsequently, in 1968, this group became the American Board of Professional Psychology, or ABPP).

By 1949, it was generally accepted that the roles of the clinical psychologist were psychotherapy, diagnosis, and re- search. Since the VA had been involved in so much of the training of clinicians and was a major employer, clinical psy- chology had gone from being largely a provider of services to children to being largely a provider of services to adults, of whom the majority were males. The membership of the APA had increased to 6,735, and there were 1,047 in the clinical division alone. About 149 graduate departments offered some

training in clinical psychology to about 2,800 clinical majors. The profession was growing at a rapid and exhilarating pace.