# 432 Community Psychology

more competently with many social-psychological problems facing America.

We contend that speciﬁc moments and movements in American history leading up to the Swampscott Conference suggest bases for the interests of citizens, including psy- chologists, to create such a distinct enterprise as community psychology. At this point in the short history of the ﬁeld, it is not certain how directly these events inﬂuenced the ﬁeld. However, we expect that that external societal issues, along with internal issues within the profession of psychology, have contributed to the challenging and robust nature of the ﬁeld of community psychology. We hope that by highlighting some of these social events and movements, future scholars can build from this framework and continue to illuminate and further specify the conﬂuence of historical events and processes that have contributed to the evolution of commu- nity psychology—a ﬁeld that has worked to contextually ground our understanding of psychological processes.

Following a review of some of these sociocultural events, particularly those of the 1950s and 1960s that preceded the emergence of the ﬁeld, we will describe the founding of the ﬁeld and articulate the historical and empirical evolution of three deﬁning domains of the ﬁeld. These domains include focusing on the Strengths of Persons and Communities, which has served as a guiding value of the ﬁeld; Ecological Theory, which has developed as the major theoretical frame- work of the ﬁeld; and Preventive Interventions, which have grown as the action arm of the ﬁeld. Though these three domains are closely identiﬁed with the evolution of the ﬁeld in a number of community psychology textbooks (e.g., Dalton, Elias, & Wandersman, 2000; Heller, Price, Reinherz, Riger, & Wandersman, 1984; Levine & Perkins, 1997), we seek to expand on the ﬁeld’s conceptualization of these con- cepts in terms of these relationships throughout the chapter.