# 312 Abnormal Psychology

seek to relieve the patient’s mind of worries, fears, and suspi- cions, “for the body cannot be cured till the mind be satis- ﬁed . . . but if satisfaction may not be had . . . then . . . drive out one passion with another, or by some contrary passion” (Burton, 1651/1927, p. 476).

Mystical Bedlam by Michael MacDonald (1981) is an- other source for information about concepts of abnormal psychology in seventeenth century England. MacDonald researched case histories recorded by Napier, a seventeenth- century astrological physician, of some 2,000 “obscure rustics” that Napier had treated. Napier’s diagnoses classiﬁed mental disorders as types of sickness variously explained by traditional cosmological and religious beliefs, and as results of individual experiences and social actions.

Increasing city populations and sizes likewise increased the importance attached to the physical consequences of living in crowded urban environments and assumptions that the humors are affected by toxins and miasmas. George Cheyne’s The English Malady, published in 1734, refers to depression or melancholy, then regarded as a peculiarly British ailment not only by the English but also by the French. Cheyne attributed the alleged prevalence of melancholy among the English to the conditions of urban life with special reference to London: “. . . the inﬁnite number of ﬁres, . . . the clouds of stinking breaths and perspirations, . . . the stinking butcherhouses, stables, dunghills . . . and mixture of such variety of all kinds of atoms are more than sufﬁcient to putrefy . . . which in time, must alter, weaken, destroy the healthiest constitutions of men. . . .” (quoted in Harms, 1967, pp. 59–60). The recommendation that asylums be built in the country comes as no surprise.