---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 19c14db3dbd42c0b79f4b6955496f8b75e76c15e
title: untitled
---
# Industrial-Organizational Psychology

Psychological Association, 1954) and the Ethical Principles of Psychologists (American Psychological Association, 1953). Antidiscrimination legislation, executive orders, and agency regulations ensued in the 1960s. Speciﬁcally, the Civil Rights Act (CRA) of 1964, Title VII, prohibited dis- crimination in employment because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin (Gutman, 2000). In 1972, the CRA was amended to include educational institutions and state and federal agencies (Gutman, 2000).

During the 1970s, the social and legal emphasis was on en- suring that employers did not blatantly discriminate against minorities and women. In 1971, in the case of Griggs v. Duke Power Co. (1971), the Supreme Court ruled that selection devices must be job-related. Arvey (1979) noted that this ruling “opened the door for statistical methods in reviewing the consequential effects of employment practices” (p. 68). The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and the Ofﬁce of Federal Contract Compliance reacted by is- suing guidelines that included validation standards deﬁned by theAmerican PsychologicalAssociation.Three key standards documents were written: Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures (1978), Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing (American Educational Research As- sociation, American Psychological Association, & National Council on Measurement in Education, 1999), and Principles for the Validation and Use of Personnel Selection Procedures (Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology, Inc., 1987). Other legislation was subsequently passed to address discrimination based on age, gender, service in the Vietnam War, disability, and others (Barrett, 1996).

It was much harder for an aggrieved party to sue and win in the 1980s (Potter, 1989), which resulted in a succession of changes in the legal climate. I-O activities associated with fair employment practices generally declined because of less aggressive enforcement. Interests in test fairness and fair em- ployment practices were renewed, however, with the passage of the American with Disabilities Act in 1990 and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, along with a continued increase in the number of lawsuits in the United States. The ﬁrst executive order of the twenty-ﬁrst century, issued by President Bill Clinton, forbids federal departments and agencies from dis- criminating in personnel decisions based on protected genetic information. Legislation was presented to implement similar protections in private organizations (Fox, 2000).

The legal requirements that emerged during the past 40 years and the increase in the number of lawsuits in the 1980s and 1990s contributed to the rapid growth of I-O psy- chology during these decades. Tenopyr (1992) noted that the civil-rights movement and criticisms of employee selection tools signiﬁcantly advanced research in I-O psychology.

Science and scientiﬁc practices were reinforced, developed, and further reﬁned (Lowenberg & Conrad, 1998). When asked to identify inﬂuences and related developments in the ﬁeld, SIOP past president (1999–2000) Angelo S. DeNisi commented,

Without a doubt I would include the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Before this Act, I/O psychologists were interested in test validity, but their interest was a scientiﬁc one, not a legal one. The CRA began a tidal wave of work on test validation, be- ginning with discussion of criterion issues, and culminating in the work on validity generalization and utility. Once we realized how important it was to be able to validate tests, the race was on to discover factors that led to lower than desired validities, and ways to validate tests more efﬁciently. This was really the impe- tus behind the VG [validity generalization] research program. Eventually, the line of research led to more serious discussions of intelligence and intelligence tests (i.e., the role of “g”); searches for alternatives to intelligence tests (e.g., research on the Big 5 Personality Factors); and research on alternative methods for delivering tests. (Angelo S. DeNisi, personal communication, August 15, 2000)

The emphasis on validity led to further development of meta-analysis, reﬁnement of job analysis methods, and re- search on legally defensible performance appraisal systems. In addition, a new employment opportunity for I-O psychol- ogists emerged: as expert witnesses in court. Other legisla- tion, court cases, and congressional hearings have inﬂuenced I-O psychology research and practice. For example, the Senate conﬁrmation hearings for Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, marked by accusations by Anita Hill that he had sexually harassed her, stimulated research on sexual harassment in organizations, and the Occupational Safety and Health Act, instituted in 1971, raised awareness about safety and health issues in the workplace.

Although many I-O psychologists believe that legislation positively impacted the evolution of I-O psychology science and practice, some colleagues believe that legal forces inhib- ited the discipline’s growth. Guion, for example, stated that the Civil Rights Act constrained selection research and prac- tice(Locke,2000).Furtherdiscussionoflegalforcesisneces- sarytobetterunderstandthelegalcontextofI-Opsychology’s history.
