data/clean/untitled__chunk2136.md, before:

# Industrial-Organizational Psychology

trends in the ﬁeld are . . . increased use of personality measures, 360° feedback instruments, and expanding the work performance domain to include aspects of contextual performance such as cit- izenship behaviours. (Dunnette, 1998, pp. 129–130)

Along with the discipline’s successes, several criticisms have been made (e.g., Dunnette, 1966). Some I-O psycholo- gists believe that practice has outstripped research. Others state that too much attention has been given to precision and objectivity. Researchers disagree with respect to how to ana- lyze, deﬁne, measure, design, and evaluate research. Excess research has been conducted on predictors and validation techniques; a paucity of research exists on criteria. Theories, research methodologies, and data analyses are less applicable for dynamic issues and thus do not account for change. Few longitudinal studies have been conducted because they are cumbersome and expensive. A gap is increasing between I-O psychology and psychology (Highhouse & Zickar, 1997). In addition, progress has been slow because of reporting to peo- ple who are not in positions of authority (Locke, 2000) and being too close to the client (Baritz, 1960).

One speciﬁc criticism plaguing the discipline throughout its history is that I-O psychologists practice “dustbowl em- piricism,” which is the process of researching relationships between variables with scant or no attention to the logic or theory underlying those relationships. Landy (1997) noted, “As a sub-discipline, I/O psychologists have long had prob- lems with theory development” (p. 472). One explanation is that the ﬁeld’s primary focus during the early years was to de- velop solutions to practical problems to legitimize applied psychology (Dunnette, 1976). Dustbowl empiricism may have characterized the discipline in the early years, and some psychologists may continue to believe that theory and re- search have not progressed; however, since the 1960s, a stronger orientation toward theory development and theory- related research can be observed. One explanation is that I-O psychologists demonstrated their usefulness, so their time and energy could be directed toward theory (Katzell & Austin, 1992). Other explanations for strides in theory and re- search include (a) a growing distinction between science and practice, (b) an increased use of laboratory experiments because of academic pressures to publish, (c) the growth of organizational psychology that has a theoretical slant, and (d) unsupported theories that led to revised theories.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk2136.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ef2a59a5bca2d121810f4ea94234a4a41d2c0fe3
title: untitled
---
# Conﬂuence of Dynamic Forces

indexes of I-O textbooks and specialized I-O books reveals the vast number of contributors. Presidents of organized I-O psychology (APA Division 14 and SIOP) are elected be- causeoftheirsigniﬁcantcontributions,whicharedescribedin their autobiographies available on the SIOP Web site (www. siop.org). SIOP members are given the distinction of fellow because of their outstanding contributions to the discipline. SIOPawards are named after inﬂuential individuals (Koppes, 1999), and award recipients are recognized for their contribu- tions. Other contributors are recognized in biographies and obituaries, which are published in TIP. In addition to individ- ualaccomplishments,I-Opsychologistscreatedwaystowork together. For example, many I-O psychologists formed pro- fessional groups, such as the Dearborn Conference Group (Meyer, 1997) and the No-Name Group (Benjamin, 1997), to address concerns, discuss issues, and share research. I-O psy- chologists have also established consulting ﬁrms, which pro- vide for collaborations between individuals and subsequent developments in research and practice (e.g., Center for Cre- ative Leadership, Development Dimensions International, Jeanneret and Associates, Inc., Personnel Research Associ- ates, Inc., Personnel Decisions Research Institute).

An indicator of developments in the ﬁeld is the number of periodicals, books, and other sources that contain I-O-related research and applications. In addition to the resources men- tioned in this chapter, over 25 different journals were formed, handbooks on related topics were created (e.g., Lorsch, 1987), two annual series were generated (e.g., Research in Organiza- tional Behavior and Research in Personnel and Human Re- source Management), and two series were established by SIOP to publish cutting-edge research and applications: Organizational Frontiers of Industrial and Organizational Psychology and The Professional Practice Series.

Numerous advances have been observed within the disci- pline. Katzell and Austin (1992) and Katzell (1994) identiﬁed metatrends such as the predominant use of sophisticated statistical analyses (e.g., structural equation modeling, meta- analysis) and more attention to outcomes not directly linked to the bottom line (e.g., stress and career development). Dunnette (1998) recognized accomplishments in his recent review of trends and emerging issues in I-O psychology:

Most signiﬁcant has been an increasingly fruitful blending of as- pects of the science and practice of this ﬁeld. Special attention has been directed towards systematic study of issues related to fair employment practices, and to broader recognition of the im- portance of meta-analysis for advancing knowledge as opposed to such simplistic approaches as statistical signiﬁcance testing. Increased attention has been focused on the importance of ge- netic inﬂuences in areas of work behaviour. . . . Several important

383

384
