# Treatment Interventions 351

1955 that the ﬁrst course in behavior modiﬁcation was offered by Arthur Staats, and by the early 1970s about two- thirds of the psychology departments in the United States of- fered behavior therapy courses. It would be rare today for instruction in this topic to be neglected. Equally signiﬁcant has been its acceptance in medical, psychiatric, and psycho- dynamic settings. This acceptance has come about because for almost any purpose—reducing stress (Lazarus, 1966), overcoming shyness, modeling appropriate behaviors in the hospital, or applying for a job—training procedures can be helpful. In some circumstances, such as teaching people with retardation or autism, behavioral techniques are among the few means available to provide assistance.

Considerable interest was generated in the study of Smith and Glass (1977), who through a relatively new statistical procedure, meta-analysis, sought to determine if psychother- apy was effective. By reexamining the data from 375 con- trolled studies of psychotherapy and counseling, they found that typical patients receiving therapy were rated higher than 75% of those in the control groups. They concluded this was evidence for the effectiveness of psychotherapy, though they did not ﬁnd any support for the superiority of one type of psy- chotherapy over another.

An alternative or supplement to psychotherapy and behav- iortherapyisdrugtreatment.Theﬁrstneurolepticmedications for the treatment of psychosis were introduced in France in 1952, and by the 1960s they had revolutionized psychiatric treatment.Psychiatrywentfromshocktherapiesandcustodial care to a “revolving door” policy in mental hospitals that sent patients into halfway houses, where they could be maintained ondrugs.Thisdrugrevolution—thischangeinemphasisfrom “warehousing”patientstoavoidingtheeffectsofinstitutional- ization, from isolating them to returning them to society— stimulatedtheﬁeldofcommunitypsychology,whichwasalso invigorated by the Community Mental Health Centers Act of 1963.Thedrugs,particularlychlorpromazine(Thorazine)and other phenothiazines, became widely used all over the world andledtogreatreductionsinthenumbersofpatientsrequiring hospitalization. Such medications did not necessarily elimi- nate the psychosis, but they did reduce the severity of symp- toms and so helped patients to be more acceptable to others. Some clinicians have been involved in the study of the long- term effects of taking neuroleptics, for example, tardive dysk- inesia, a neurological syndrome that involves involuntary movements of the lips and tongue (Sprague, Kalachnik, & Shaw, 1989). Other clinical psychologists have conducted re- searchontheuseofbothtraditionalneurolepticsandthenewer drugsofthistype,forexample,risperidone,inthetreatmentof self-injurious behaviors and aggression in individuals with mental retardation (Schroeder, Rojahn, & Reese, 1997).