# Legal Views of the Mentally Ill

The legal system has classiﬁed psychopathology based on different premises. They include the concept of responsibility for one’s actions and the duty of society to protect those who cannot protect themselves. The concept of responsibility is the cornerstone of western law.

Throughout history legislation has been enacted to protect the insane, as well as to protect society from those who are disruptive or violent. Western law pertaining to the mentally ill has its beginnings in the Roman law of Twelve Tables, codiﬁed from traditional practices in the ﬁfth century B.C., which provided for the appointment of guardians empowered with authority over those regarded as incompetent to manage their affairs. According to Neaman (1975), the Roman laws of guardianship were designed to protect people and prop- erty. The insane and the immature could not legally acquire possessions, nor legally consent and dissent, because they were presumed to lack the capacity to know what they were doing. In cases where an insane person had committed a crime, Roman law held that “an insane person, as well as an infant, is legally incapable of malicious intent and the power to insult, and therefore the action for injuries cannot be brought against them” (p. 90).

Throughout recorded history, laws have been devised to minimize the social impact of mental disorder. Legal records dating from the earliest times indicate that throughout Europe and Great Britain the family and, if family resources were inadequate or unavailable, the community was responsible for the care, maintenance, and supervision of incompetent or deranged individuals. Such persons, if they were harmless to themselves or others, were kept at home, allowed to roam and beg, or were maintained by charity extended by members of the community and the church. Some disruptive mentally ill individuals may have been driven away by their families or community—but we have no idea at all of their numbers. In many places and times, the legal guardians of the insane were held responsible for their actions and for conserving their property. Insane persons considered likely to injure themselves or others could be imprisoned. The antiquity of such measures is indicated by the fact that mental disorders were termed “surveillance diseases” in old Icelandic law (Retterstol, 1975).

Laws that deﬁne culpability for criminal actions, as a mat- ter of whether or not individuals are of sound mind and hence responsible for their actions, are based on the doctrine of “free will,” a concept developed by St. Augustine (354– 430 A.D.) and abandoned in scientiﬁc psychology. The doc- trine held that the will is governed by the rational intellect, which enables the individual to tell right from wrong, to make judgments, and to choose to act based on rational considera- tions. Without rational intellect, the individual is not free to act responsibly. It was assumed that the rational intellect is not developed in children before the age of seven, fails to develop in “natural fools,” and is lost in the insane.Therefore, children, “natural fools,” and the insane are incapable of free will, and cannot be held responsible for the consequence of their actions. Although children, natural fools, and madmen could not be punished for their crimes, it was deemed neces- sary to supervise and restrain them so they would not pose a problem to society.The principle of diminished responsibility was taken into consideration in assessing the guilt of insane persons for criminal acts and in depriving them of certain civil rights or obligations. Juries readily pardoned guilty per- sons they considered demonstrably insane both before and after the crime. Proofs of insanity most commonly used in courtrooms were attempted suicide, violent or irrational be- havior, and abnormal behavior accompanied by sickness.

Neugebauer (1978) reviewed extensive legislation en- acted in medieval England intended to protect the person, property, and civil rights of the mentally ill. The laws distin- guished between persons suffering from congenital subnor- mality and presumably incurable (“natural fools”) and those, once normal, who became mentally deranged (non compos mentis), for whom recovery might be possible. The Preroga- tive Regis, dating from the thirteenth century, designated the king as custodian of lands belonging to “natural fools” and any proﬁt therefrom rendered to the rightful heirs; the lands of persons considered non compos mentis were to be con- served and returned to the persons if they should come to right mind. Judgment of mental disability relied on common sense methods such as determining ability to perform simple intellectual tasks.

In the nineteenth century the concept of responsibility, and hence culpability in the case of crime, provided the basis for England’s McNaughten Rules to handle the legal disposition of criminals judged to be insane. These rules were estab- lished after the 1843 trial of Daniel McNaughten in London, which he was found McNaughten not guilty on grounds of insanity for the murder of Edward Drummond, secretary to Sir Robert Peel, the British prime minister. The rules hold that persons who commit crimes while insane are not re- sponsible for them because they lack the rational faculty

for telling the difference between right and wrong, and, al- though such persons must be restrained, they should be treated for their insanity and not punished for the crime. The McNaughten Rules are still applied in Great Britain and in some states of the United States. (See chapter by Brigham & Grisso in this volume.)