## Early Research and Expert Testimony on Eyewitness Memory

One area that Münsterberg (1908) touted as an important ﬁeld of expertise was the study of witness memory and testi- mony. One of the ﬁrst studies in this area was conducted in 1893 by J. McKeen Cattell at Columbia University, who asked students a series of memory questions similar to those that might be asked in a court of law. Cattell (1895) was sur- prised at the degree of inaccuracy that his respondents showed and by the tenuous relationship between their accu- racy and their own certainty that they were correct. It has

been suggested that “Cattell’s study probably was the genesis of modern forensic psychology” (Bartol & Bartol, 1999, p. 4) because it sparked the interest of other researchers, particu- larly those in Europe, in the psychology of testimony. Alfred Binet in France (e.g., Binet, 1900, 1905) and Wilhelm Stern in Germany (e.g., Stern, 1906, 1910) carried out a number of empirical studies on memory and testimony. In Belguim in 1911, psychologist J. Varendonck presented in court the results of several experiments indicating that children were inaccurate in their memory of important events (Bartol & Bartol, 1999). In the United States, Guy Whipple wrote a se- ries of articles in the Psychological Bulletin that summarized (mostly European) research on observation and reported memories (Whipple, 1909, 1912, 1915, 1918). In the initial article in this series, Wigmore (1909, p. 154) lamented “the fact that English and American investigators are conspicuous by their absence” in studies of the psychology of testimony. The ﬁrst recorded instance in which an American psycholo- gist was proffered as an eyewitness expert was in Criglow v. State, a 1931 Arkansas case (Fulero, 1993). There was a resurgence of interest in the study of eyewitness memory and in expert testimony on the issue by research psychologists, beginning in the 1970s. We will brieﬂy summarize that re- search later.