---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0c798e35a1b643ad020b90cdeab596553f5c113a
title: untitled
---
# The Counseling Psychologist

As noted earlier, with the proliferation of types of jobs around the turn of the twentieth century, people had more oc- cupational choices than ever before. Vocational counseling, which had been a part of the business of nineteenth-century phrenologists, became even more important. The most inﬂu- ential ﬁgure in the vocational guidance movement of the early twentieth century was not a psychologist but an indi- vidual trained in engineering and law, Frank Parsons (1854–1908). He wrote his most important work in the wan- ing days of his life, a book published after he died, entitled Choosing a Vocation (1909). Parsons’s formula for success- ful guidance involved: (a) a clear understanding of the indi- vidual’s talents, limitations, and interests, (b) knowledge about diverse jobs including what was required for success in those jobs, and (c) matching those two kinds of information for the best vocational guidance.

There were clear ties between Parsons’s approach and the matching between jobs and people that was the focus of psy- chologists in personnel work in businesses. Parsons, as part of the progressive movement of the times, emphasized the reduction of human inefﬁciency—as reﬂected in the high turnover of workers—through the application of a careful program of career planning. Vocational guidance became a mantra of progressive reformers and soon found its way into the American mainstream with the formation of the National Vocational Guidance Association in 1913.

Quickly, the vocational guidance counselor was integrated into elementary and secondary schools across America, beginning a strong association between guidance and educa- tion. It also made its way into industry through personnel selection. Psychologists found the issues of person and career matching amenable to the new applied science of psychology and worked to develop reliable and valid measures of indi- vidual traits and abilities for use in guidance and selection. Guidance counseling became even more prominent in schools after the passage of the National Vocational Educa- tion Act in 1917. Following the First World War, vocational guidance centers (or “clinics,” as they were sometimes called) were established as well at colleges and universities. For example, Witmer founded a separate vocational guidance clinic at the University of Pennsylvania in 1920 that was headed by one of his doctoral graduates, Morris Viteles (1898–1996), who would later distinguish himself as an industrial psychologist.

In all of these vocational guidance centers and clinics, the key component of the arsenal of the guidance specialists was mental tests, including interest tests that were developed in the 1920s, and a growing number of aptitude and ability tests that were used not only in guidance but also for selec- tion. This vocational role, both in personnel work and in guidance, remained relatively stable until after the Second World War. (See the chapters by Koppes and Baker in this volume.)
