---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d97ed5cd20585f65f821f57f66ca89ec82537f25
title: untitled
---
# James, Lange, and Sergi

William James’s presentation of his theory of emotion came in three installments: First, in an 1884 article in Mind, then in 1890 in Chapter 25 of his Principles of Psychology, and ﬁ- nally in 1894 in the extensive reply to his critics (James, 1884, 1890, 1894). I start with his bald statement in the 1884 article: “My thesis is . . . that the bodily changes follow directly the PERCEPTION of the exciting fact, and that our feeling of the same changes as they occur IS the emotion” (p. 189). James’s emphasis on “organic” experience is illustrated when he notes that we might see a bear and decide it would be best to run away, or receive an insult and consider it appropriate to strike back, but “we would not actually feel afraid or angry.” In il- lustration, he noted that it would be impossible to think of an emotion of fear if “the feelings neither of quickened heart-

beats nor of shallow breathing, neither of trembling lips nor of weakened limbs, neither of goose-ﬂesh not of visceral stirring, were present” (1894, p. 194). The bodily changes James wants to consider include running, crying, facial expressions, and even more complicated actions such as striking out. Whereas James did say that certain emotions were tied to speciﬁc vis- ceral patterns, he did not conﬁne himself to them. His insis- tence on general bodily changes sets him apart from Lange, who had said that emotions were the consequences of certain “vaso-motor effects.” By 1894, James speciﬁcally rejected that position when he noted that “Lange has laid far too great stress on the vaso-motor factor in his explanation” (p. 517). James kept looking for crucial tests of his theory, but even in cases of congenital analgesia (who have no known pain sensa- tions), he found it impossible to be certain of their emotional consciousness. He was concerned with the verbal problems and traps in existing and popular efforts to establish a taxon- omy of emotion: “It is plain that the limit to [the number of emotions that could be enumerated] would lie in the intro- spective vocabulary of the seeker . . . and all sorts of group- ings would be possible, according as we choose this character or that as a basis. . . . The reader may then class the emotions as he will” (1890, p. 485). Lange said very much the same thing and, antedating Wittgenstein by several decades, spoke of the reasons for the overlap among various conceptions of emotions as due to certain “family resemblances” that one can ﬁnd in “popular speech as well as in scientiﬁc psychology.” Lange’s little book appeared in Danish in 1885, and it was the German translation by Kurella that James saw shortly thereafter and that has formed the basis of all further expo- sitions of Lange’s work (Lange, 1885, 1887). Lange’s book was not translated into English until 1922, when it appeared in a volume edited by Knight Dunlap, together with James’s paper in Mind and the 1890 chapter (Dunlap, 1922).

Exactly what was it that Carl Lange said about emotion? He started his treatise by saying that the old conceptions of the emotions were wrong and must be reversed. But Lange was somewhat reluctant to state exactly what that reverse implies. In the clearest passage on that topic, he said that his theory holds “that the various emotional disturbances are due to disturbances in the vascular innervation that accompanies the affections, and which, therefore, makes these vaso-motor disturbances the only primary symptoms” (in Dunlap, 1922, p. 60). In his introductory passage, Lange had started out to explore the effects of the emotions on bodily functions but had found that goal to be very difﬁcult, if not impossible, to achieve, “simply because the question had been put in re- verse order.”

There is a problem of interpretation of James’s and Lange’s “perceptual” antecedent of visceral disturbance. We

are told repeatedly that particular perceptions produce certain bodily effects, which then in turn are perceived and experi- enced as “emotions.” What we are not told is how these per- ceptions of external events produce the bodily effects. James says that external events can give rise to bodily, visceral changes without any awareness of the meaning and without interpretation of these events. For example, he ﬁnds it “sur- prising” that one can have mental events without conscious accompaniments, which then precede the bodily reaction. But then the theory falls apart because it is the intervening mental event that gives rise to the organically determined emotion. There is nothing surprising about this in 2002 with our current concern with cognitions, the “intervening” inter- pretive events.

If James is given some of the major credit for introducing a constructivist analytic modern psychology, it is because he was the most visible carrier of the idea. Others had similar notions. The most visible, apart from Lange, was the Italian psychologist Giuseppe Sergi, who wrote extensively on emo- tion and published his own Nuova teoria della emozioni in 1894 and 1896 independently of James and Lange (Sergi, 1894, 1896). Sergi insisted that the brain added only the conscious aspect to the emotions, all other aspects being the result of vasomotor changes. Dunlap (1922) speciﬁcally singles out the Australian Alexander Sutherland as the third discoverer of the James-Lange theory, although Sutherland, a philosopher, did not publish his independent version until 1898 (Sutherland, 1898), a version that was neither as clear nor as persuasive as James’s. An even better candidate for a priority claim might be the philosopher Jacob Henle, whom James quotes repeatedly and approvingly. But these were the “others”—history is often unkind.

To understand the tenor of the times, considerWundt’s cri- tique of the James-Lange theory (Wundt, 1891). Dealing with Lange’s theory, Wundt called it a psychological pseudo- explanation that tries to explain away psychic facts with physiological observations. Instead,Wundt starts with the un- analyzable feelings that alter the stream of ideas. For exam- ple, the unanalyzable feelings of “fear” or “joy” can inﬂuence the encouraging some, discouraging some, or inhibiting other ideas. This altered stream of ideas produces a secondary feeling as well as or- ganic reactions. And the organic reactions produce sensory feelings that are added to or fused with the preceding feeling (or sensation) and thus intensify the conscious feeling. Mod- ern counterparts of Wundt are continuing a search for speciﬁc fundamental emotions. Instead of looking for fundamental emotions, others, such as Arnold (1960), considered “ap- praisals” as primary, in terms of their unanalyzability. First comes the appraisal of something as “good” or “bad,” then
