data/clean/untitled__chunk2232.md, before:

# Forensic Clinical Evaluations

Today many psychologists are employed full-time or part- time to provide clinical evaluations to courts and attorneys in addressing forensic issues. These evaluations are requested in criminal cases (e.g., competence to stand trial, insanity, sen- tencing), civil cases (e.g., disability claims, civil commit- ment, competence to consent to treatment, personal injury), and cases before juvenile, child and family, and probate courts (e.g., child abuse and neglect, parental competence, di- vorce custody, and various issues in delinquency cases).

The earliest involvement of psychologists in forensic clini- cal evaluations for courts, at least in signiﬁcant numbers, was with regard to child and family cases that were before the courts.When theAmerican system of juvenile justice began in theearly1900s,theoriginaljuvenilecourtshadcourtclinicsat- tached to them to serve judges in understanding youths’needs. The earliest of these clinics was an institute developed in 1909 byWilliamHealy,aneurologist,andGraceFernald,apsychol- ogist, to serve the Cook County (Chicago) Juvenile Court (Schetky & Benedek, 1992). Using a team approach, they pro- vided comprehensive, multidisciplinary “studies” of youths to assist the court in arriving at rehabilitation plans. Psycholo- gists’evaluationservicestojuvenilecourtshavecontinuedrel- atively unabated to the present time. In the latter half of the twentieth century, psychologists have been the most frequent professional providers of evaluations for disposition recom- mendationsandtransfertocriminalcourtindelinquencycases, as well as parental capacities in divorce custody cases.

The evolution of clinical psychology in the mid-twentieth century brought many psychologists in contact with criminal populations through their employment in correctional pro-

grams (Brodsky, 1973). In addition, in their clinical roles in forensic inpatient hospitals, they began to perform psycho- logical testing in forensic evaluation cases under the auspices of psychiatry. At least by the 1960s, some attorneys and courts were increasingly recognizing psychologists’potential as evaluation experts in criminal and civil cases. In Jenkins v. United States (1962), the Supreme Court decided that a psy- chologists’ testimony should not be excluded as evidence re- garding mental illness in cases involving competence to stand trial. The issue, the Court said, was not the individual’s degree, but whether the person had adequate training and experience to form an expert opinion. This ruling opened the way for psy- chologists to step into that role as independent examiners.

This opportunity was seized by the founders of the American Psychology-Law Society (AP-LS), most of whom had primary interests in promoting forensic psychology as an evaluation resource for attorneys and courts (Grisso, 1991). No sooner had the group of 101 charter members convened, however, than they found that they were radically divided in their views of psychology’s future as providers of forensic evaluations. The majority felt that psychology’s empirical foundation and tradition of psychological testing offered the courts much more than did psychiatry and that psychologists should forge ahead in their efforts to provide evaluations for the courts. But a vocal minority (including the ﬁrst president of the AP-LS, Jay Ziskin) urged restraint until the ﬁeld could perform some research to support psychological experts’ testimony. These dissenters pointed out that psychologists knew no more about the validity of their opinions—for example, about predictions of dangerousness or mental states related to criminal responsibility—than did clinicians in any other mental health profession (Grisso, 1991).

The more conservative minority was correct. At that time, only one major research study had been conducted on the evaluation of competence to stand trial (directed not by a psy- chologist, but a psychiatrist) (Laboratory for Community Psychiatry, 1973). There was no standard way to perform an evaluation for competence to stand trial, and the quality of most such evaluations in must states was woefully inade- quate by today’s standards. By the mid-1970s data were beginning to appear that indicated that when mental health professionals predicted that someone was going to engage in a violent behavior, they were wrong two out of three times (Monahan, 1981). Psychological and psychiatric analysis of the deﬁnition and assessment of criminal responsibility (insanity) offered no particular advances beyond those that could be found in medical treatises of the nineteenth century (Quen, 1994). And until the 1980s, the ﬁeld had not a single textbook on forensic psychology, much less a textbook on the performance of speciﬁc forensic clinical evaluations.

Despite psychology’s inability to make any claim of relia- bility or validity for most of its forensic evaluations, it re- quired only two decades beyond the founding of AP-LS for psychologists’ independent forensic evaluations to be com- monplace in all areas in which clinical expertise was needed in criminal, civil, and juvenile courts. In many states, by the 1990s psychologists outnumbered psychiatrists as public- sector providers of forensic clinical evaluations for com- petence to stand trial and criminal responsibility (Grisso, Cocozza, Steadman, Fisher, & Greer, 1994). As we shall dis- cuss later, the ﬁeld also witnessed signiﬁcant growth in re- search that eventually allowed psychologists to correct many of the inadequacies inherent in their forensic evaluations before the 1980s.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk2232.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: fb00f2afbe145bb38b1e5946a499c23258f32671
title: untitled
---
# 400 Forensic Psychology

issues). At the level of ethical guidelines and professional responsibilities, the broadest deﬁnition of “forensic psychol- ogy” applies best. Any psychologist (e.g., clinical, social, cognitive, developmental) who works within the legal system should be held to the same high ethical and professional stan- dards that are presented in the APA Code of Ethics and the AP-LS Specialty Guidelines. But the clinical/nonclinical dis- tinction is still a meaningful one. For example, education, training, and licensing issues that are pertinent to clinical forensic psychologists may be irrelevant or inapplicable to nonclinical forensic psychologists (e.g., a one-year clinical internship). Further, clinicians and nonclincians differ in their orientation to the legal process and in the role they are likely to play in the courtroom. Clinicians are more likely to present assessments of speciﬁc individuals, while nonclinicians are more likely to present research-based social-fact evidence that applies to people in general.
