# 284 Assessment Psychology

Columbia, designed the Personal Data Sheet (Woodworth, 1920). The Personal Data Sheet consisted of a written list of questions concerning presumed symptoms of psychological disturbance (e.g., “Are you happy most of the time?”), which were to be answered by checking “Yes” or “No.” Although intended for use as a screening device to deselect emotionally unstable draftees, Woodworth’s measure was not completed in time to serve this purpose. Following the war, however, the Personal Data Sheet was put to civilian use as a measure of adjustment, and as such it was the ﬁrst formal self-report personality assessment questionnaire to become generally available.

Although limited in scope and superﬁcial in design, Woodworth’s measure served as the model on which later generations of adjustment and personality inventories were based. Before continuing with that history, there is an his- torical footnote to World War I that should be noted. The de- velopment of the Personal Data Sheet as a model for an enduring tradition in assessment psychology (i.e., personality inventories), like the development of the Binet-Simon and Army Alpha before it as models of other enduring traditions (i.e., individual and group intelligence tests), bears witness to the impetus of war and public need in evoking formal meth- ods of psychological assessment. The tides of war inevitably have their dark side, however, for those caught in the civilian crossﬁre as well as for those coming under military attack. In an event with broad sociopolitical implications, James McKeen Cattell, after 26 years as a senior faculty member at Columbia University was, according to Boring (1950, p. 535), dismissed from his position in 1917 after taking a paciﬁst stance with respect to the United States entry into World War I.

Returning to the history of self-report measures, the next majordevelopmentfollowingthePersonalDataSheetwasthe publication by Robert Bernreuter (1901–1995) of a new Per- sonality Inventory (Bernreuter, 1931). Unlike Woodworth’s measure, which yielded just a single score for overall level of adjustment, the Bernreuter was a multidimensional self- report instrument with separate scales for several different personality characteristics, such as neurotic tendencies, as- cendance-submission, and introversion-extraversion. This was the ﬁrst multidimensional personality assessment mea- sure to appear and, although the era in which it was widely used and recognized is long past, the Bernrueter’s place in history is assured by its having set the stage for a bevy of similarly designed instruments that came to constitute a cornerstone of assessment psychology. Among these many multidimensional personality questionnaires, six currently prominent instruments are notable for illustrating different

motivations and methodologies that have been involved in developing such measures: the Minnesota Multiphasic Per- sonality Inventory (MMPI), the California Psychological Inventory (CPI), the Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory (MCMI), the Sixteen Personality Factors Questionnaire (16PF), the NEO Personality Inventory (NEO-PI), and the PersonalityAssessment Inventory (PAI).