---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1dc24986e4e24c3b067e0bd66fd2c11350b5d904
title: untitled
---
# education in the future.

First, Veysey’s (1973) three catalytic forces, the external demands on higher education, can be considered constant after more than 200 years of inﬂuence—utilitarian needs of American society, scientiﬁc discovery and an increasing re- spect for empirical evidence in the construction and applica- tions of knowledge, and the virtues of liberal education in creating a responsible citizenry. Every generation must grap- ple with how best to respond to these demands via curricula and academic practices (Pascarella & Terenzini, 1991).

Second, it is the responsibility of the disciplines and the professions, the internal forces of higher education, to create and then to communicate increasingly complex theories and sophisticated applications, thereby enabling students to be lifelong problem solvers, amiable skeptics, and citizens.

The discipline of psychology is well positioned as a socio- cultural force in the broader society to addressAmerica’s util- itarian needs, scientiﬁc knowledge, and liberal education values. However, we need continuing scholarship, teaching, and service for the discipline to be more analytical in its aca- demicprogramefforts.Thus,wereturntoMcGovern’s(1993) questions as a future teaching, research, and service agenda:

What kind of outcomes can be achieved with What kind of students taught by What kind of faculty using What kind of teaching methods as part of What kind of curriculum? (p. 218, emphases in original).

These questions need to be understood within the contexts of external forces acting on the academy as well as internal responses of the faculty and their institutions.

The outcomes expected of a baccalaureate education are increasingly utilitarian. For example, consumers and sup- porters of higher education consider the postgraduation employment opportunities for speciﬁc majors to be very important. This fact is especially critical for psychology to understand, because we now award almost 75,000 baccalau- reates annually, and the major’s popularity has not waned. Research on alumni satisfaction is an essential element of program evaluation (Borden & Rajecki, 2000; McGovern & Carr, 1989). Moreover, departments’ program development activities regularly include community employers and exter- nal consultants (Korn et al., 1996; Walker, Newcomb, & Hopkins, 1987).

The kinds of students taking undergraduate psychology have changed, most notably in their gender and ethnic charac- teristics (McGovern & Hawks, 1986, 1988). In a report titled “The Changing Face ofAmerican Psychology,” Howard et al.

(1986) reported the growing percentages of women who re- ceived baccalaureates in the discipline: 36.8% (1950), 41% (1960), 46.4% (1972), 66.8% (1982). McGovern and Reich (1996) reported 73% for 1992–1993. The percentages of doc- torates achieved by women had similar percentage increases: 14.8% (1950), 17.5% (1960), 26.7% (1972), 50.1% (1984), and 61% (1992–1993). Ten years after the Howard et al. re- port, Pion et al. (1996) reported on the consequences of this shifting gender composition, and they concluded:

Psychology, along with the majority of professions and scientiﬁc disciplines, has undergone dramatic shifts in gender composition over the past two decades. These changes have prompted con- cern that this increased participation by women may lead to erosion in the status of these occupations. . . . Societal and disci- plinary trends are examined, along with data on the patterns of men’s and women’s involvement in the educational pipeline and workplace. The results provide little support for the concern over the increasing representation of women and its impact on the prestige of the discipline. (p. 509)

Denmark (1994) asserted, “Engendering psychology refers to cultivating a psychology that is sensitive to issues of gender and diversity. The increase in the number of female psychologists does not guarantee that the discipline will be responsive to those issues” (p. 329). In our historical review of teaching, scholarship, and service activities, we discov- ered signiﬁcant changes in the rhetoric about women and the discipline, but programmatic change continues to be difﬁcult. As McGovern et al. (1991) noted in their APA/AAC project report:

Comments on an earlier draft of this article also pointed to dif- ferent views on how best to integrate gender, ethnicity, culture, and class into the study of psychology. . . . Most psychologists would acknowledge that faculty members must challenge cam- pus racism and sexism, but there is less agreement on how to do so. Gender, ethnicity, culture, and class are seen by some teach- ers as issues that challenge the contemporary curricula. Such a challenge also questions traditional research methodologies that are empirical, quantitative, and positivist, and may advocate al- ternative psychological methods that are contextual, interpretive, and more qualitative. Other psychologists believe that, although these topics and the new knowledge generated by research have legitimacy in the discipline, they should be subtopics best left to treatments determined by an instructor’s sensitivities and com- mitments. (pp. 599–600)

The above quotation captures the difﬁcult conversations that must be taking place in classrooms and in departmental

meetings about the very nature of the discipline, not just stu- dents’ demographic characteristics. In their article “The Diversiﬁcation of Psychology: A Multicultural Revolution,” Sue, Bingham, Porche-Burke, and Vasquez (1999) identiﬁed four major approaches to teaching about multiculturalism and diversity: “the separate course model, the area of con- centration model, the interdisciplinary model, and the integration model” (p. 1066), ultimately advocating the inte- gration model as the one best suited for the depth and breadth of learning they hope students will achieve. Puente et al. (1993) used the metaphor of teaching a “psychology of vari- ance” as the means to change the epistemology of students, departments, the curriculum, and the discipline. Enns (1994) advocated a similar approach to challenge the cultural rela- tivism of psychological constructs. What is consistent across reports from academia and from the external community is that attention to diversity issues is no longer a matter of indi- vidual faculty sensitivity but a utilitarian requirement for em- ployment advancement in a changing workplace. The script for how institutions and departments will address this expec- tation will be written in the global twenty-ﬁrst century.

For the ﬁrst half of the twentieth century, psychology fac- ulties were required to be excellent teachers. “The teacher is everything” (Seashore, 1910, p. 91). Then, as we documented in the ﬁrst section of this chapter, research became more im- portant in academic life after World War II.

“Teaching is not a prestigeful occupation in psychol- ogy these days. The research man is the status ﬁgure” (McKeachie & Milholland, 1961, p. 6). Ideally, these two ac- tivities could be synergistic and rewarded accordingly, whether the faculty member was afﬁliated with a liberal arts college or a research university. However, as the century ended, external forces demanded that the values and time apportioned to teaching, research, and service activities be reconsidered. Halpern et al. (1998) concluded that a new deﬁnition of scholarship was required, one that would main- tain traditional benchmarks for excellence (e.g., high level of discipline-speciﬁc expertise and peer review), but one that would integrate teaching and scholarly activities more. Drawing on Boyer’s (1990) treatise, the authors proposed a ﬁve-part, expansive deﬁnition for future scholarship in psy- chology:originalresearch,integrationofknowledge,applica- tion of knowledge, scholarship of pedagogy, and scholarship ofteachinginpsychology.Inacollectionofessaysinresponse to the report from this STP Task Force on Deﬁning Scholar- ship in Psychology, Girgus (1999) and Korn (1999) advised that institutional mission should be seen as an absolutely essential context for deﬁnitions and standards. Korn echoed the historical trends that we discovered in our analyses in his critical response to the “new deﬁnitions”: “I contend,
