---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 83350353104445eacec85fc6f9936397e6694a7d
title: untitled
---
## Cold War, Cybernetics, and Social Psychology

When SolomonAsch (1952) well noted the very conditions of life and beliefs in society as part and parcel of the “historical circumstances [under which] social psychology [made] its ap- pearance” in midcenturyAmerica (p. 4), he might have added howtheculminationoftheseforcesmadeforaprofoundover- haul of psychology’s object—the human. The Macy Founda- tion Conferences, for example, incited talk of “electronic brains” and fantasies of robots, as well as of “communica- tion,” “cybernetics,” and “information,” all of which assumed their collective place in social psychology’s imagination of thehumansubjectfordecadestocome(Bayer,1999a;alsosee Heims, 1993). This makeover is about assessing how, as John Carson (1999) argues of psychology’s object, the human mind, social psychology’s object of the individual becomes “fashioned into different investigative objects” (p. 347). By the mid-1950s, “Information theory and computer technol- ogy, in addition to statistical methods, suggested a new way to understandpeopleandtoanswerthequestionofthemind’sre- lation to matter” (Smith, 1997, p. 838). The older mechanistic notion of man-as-machine was giving way to one of man-as- an-information-processor in which the human becomes a composite of input-output functions understood as a “homeo- static self-regulating mechanism whose boundaries were clearly delineated from the environment” (Hayles, 1999, p. 34; also see Bayer, 1999a; Edwards, 1996; Smith, 1997). Seen as forged out of a combination of cognitive psychology, behaviorism, gestalt, information theory, mathematics, and linguistics, this version of the nature of “man” allowed for “man” and machine (computer) to go beyond metaphors of mechanical man into the realm of relations between man and machine (Edwards). Cybernetics was thus “a means to extend liberal humanism” by “fashioning human and machine alike in the image of an autonomous, self-directed” and “self- regulating”individual(Hayles,p.7).Movementbetweenman and machine was eased by the idea of communication denot- ing relation, not essence; indeed, relation itself came to sig- nify the direction of social psychology—interpersonal, group, intergroup—as much as in communication studies (Hayles, p. 91; Samelson, 1985). This transformation of social psy- chology’s object also entailed a change to small groups as its unit of study (Heims, p. 275; also see Back, 1972; Danziger, 1990), an idea resonant with an emerging idealized notion of open communication in small communities.

Within small group laboratories, cybernetics and informa- tion theory brought men and machines together by including

each in the loop of communication-control-command- information (C3I) interactions. Robert Bales, for example, translated Parson’s sexual division of labor into a language of communication codes of instrumental and expressive interac- tions such that together in the context of small groups they functioned as a “mutually supporting pair” serving “stabiliz- ing” or “homeostatic like functions” (Bales, 1955, p. 32). For Alex Bavelas (1952) messages carried information about status and relationship to the group and patterns of communi- cation about networks, efﬁciency, and leadership. Bavelas’s work thus marks the beginning of the sea change from Lewin’s “Gestalt psychology to . . . ‘bits’ of information” (Heims, 1993, p. 223).

That human and machine could interface via information codes or messages in small groups eased the way as well to using certain technologies as message communicators, such as Crutchﬁeld’s (1955) vision of an electronic commu- nication apparatus for small group research, featuring a sys- tem of light signals with a controlling switchboard allowing the experimenter to control and communicate messages among group members. Electronic apparatuses “stood in” for other experimental group participants, creating the impres- sion of the presence of other participants sending messages to one another in a small group. But, just as signiﬁcantly, these apparatuses helped to fashion a human-as-information- processor subjectivity (Bayer, 1998a). Such electronic de- vices, along with a host of other technologies, such as audio recordings and one-way mirrors, began to characterize small grouplaboratoryresearchastheouterworldofeverydaysocial life was increasingly recreated inside the social psychology laboratory (Bayer & Morawski, 1992; Bayer, 1998a). Simu- lated laboratory small groups offered at least one way to rec- oncilesmallgroupresearchwithsocialpsychology’sdemands for scientiﬁc experimental rigor and to serve as a kind of labo- ratory in which to reconstrue communication as a social psy- chology of social relations (Graebner, 1986; Pandora, 1991). In retrospect, small group research of the 1950s to the 1990s seemed deeply invested in mapping a “contested ter- rain of the social relations of selves” (Bayer & Morawski, 1991, p. 6), for which the language of communication and control served as much to set the terms of management re- lations as it did to masculinize communication in corporate culture, or the thinking man’s desk job (Bayer, 2001). Bales’s research, for example, tailored the gender terms of social psychology’s communication, control, and command interchanges by converting Parsonian sex roles into com- munication labor that sorted group members’ contributions into either the “best liked man” or the “best ideas man”—a mutually supporting pair in corporate management. That the typical instrumental gender role moved between private and
