# 36 Psychology as a Profession

to avoid the hard feelings among veterans that occurred as a result of their poor treatment following the First World War, ill feeling that had led to a massive march on Washington, D.C. It was evident in 1942 that psychiatrists were too few in number to provide the necessary clinical services, so the federal government mandated that the United States Public Health Service (USPHS) and the Veterans Administration (VA) signiﬁcantly expand the pool of mental health profes- sionals. That translated into increasing the availability of clinical psychologists.

The USPHS and VA worked with the new APA to expand doctoral training programs in clinical psychology and to identify programs of acceptable quality. The latter goal led to the formation of the APA’s accreditation program for clinical psychology programs in 1946 and for counseling psychology programs in 1952. The former goal initiated a series of meet- ings with department heads of doctoral psychology programs who had extant clinical psychology programs or were inter- ested in developing such programs. The USPHS promised funding to university graduate programs to support clinical psychology students, and the VA promised funding for prac- tica and internship training (Moore, 1992). Because the GI bill had been altered to include beneﬁts for graduate study, money was also available from that program to support doctoral training for veterans, and many chose to pursue advanced study in psychology, with much of that interest directed toward clinical psychology.

Although an accreditation process was already in place within the APA as of 1946, there was no agreed-upon model for clinical training. Discussions of such models dated to the 1890s with a proposal from Witmer, which was followed by subsequent curriculum and training proposals by APA’s Clin- ical Section in 1918–1919 in a series of articles in the Jour- nal of Applied Psychology, by the ACP, and by the AAAP. As a leader in the AAAP, clinical psychologist David Shakow (1901–1981) was the key ﬁgure in drafting a model curricu- lum for clinical training. He developed a proposal for the AAAP in 1941 that shaped all subsequent discussions, lead- ing to the report of the Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology (CTCP), an APA committee founded in 1946 with Shakow as chair and funded by the VA and the USPHS. The committee’s formidable charge was to

(a) formulate a recommended program for training in clinical psychology, (b) formulate standards for institutions giving training in clinical psychology, including both universities and internship and other practice facilities; (c) study and visit institu- tions giving instruction in clinical psychology and make a detailed report on each institution. (Baker & Benjamin, 2000, p. 244)

Shakow and his committee published their report in 1947 (American Psychological Association, 1947). Two years later it became the framework for the most famous report in the history of professional training in psychology, the “Boulder Report.” That report was the result of the joint work of 73 individuals from psychology and related ﬁelds who came together in Boulder, Colorado, for two weeks in the summer of 1949 to produce a model of clinical training in psychology that became known as the “Boulder model” or “scientist- practitioner model” (Raimy, 1950). The architects of this model argued that it was both possible and desirable to train clinical psychologists as competent practitioners and scien- tists, a view that continues to be debated today.

Not only was there a new formal model for clinical train- ing, but there was a new model for the clinical psychologist as practitioner (one that involved training as a psychotherapist, a role for psychologists that was strongly supported by the fed- eral government). Clinical psychologists would break from their tradition in psychometrics to focus on the delivery of psychotherapy. In 1948, the federal government established the National Institute of Mental Health, which gave further impetus to both the training in and practice of clinical psy- chology (VandenBos, Cummings, & DeLeon, 1992). The turf disputes with psychiatry had been minor skirmishes before the war, but bigger battles were about to break out as psychol- ogists began to be true competitors of psychiatrists.

As the numbers of psychologists who worked as practi- tioners grew, the pressures for certiﬁcation, licensing, and even insurance reimbursement for clients again surfaced within the profession. Connecticut was the ﬁrst state to enact a psychologist certiﬁcation law in 1945. Over the next 30 years, professional psychologists worked state by state to get state legislatures to pass laws creating psychology licens- ing boards. These efforts were largely the responsibility of state psychological associations, although by 1970 the APA began providing some coordination and consultation. In the mid-1950s, the Board of Professional Affairs was created by the APA, with the mission to establish standards for profes- sional practice, foster the application of psychological knowledge, and maintain satisfactory relations with other professions (American Psychological Association, 1957).

The struggles for equality were not only in the legislatures but also with insurance companies and employers. Employer- paidhealthinsurancehademergedasanemployeebeneﬁtdur- ing World War II. During the 1950s and 1960s, labor unions sought to achieve such coverage and expand it (and to include psychotherapy services). After years of urging by practition- ers, the APA created an Ad Hoc Committee on Insurance and Related Social Developments in 1963 to meet with insurance industry ofﬁcials in order to get psychologists included in

reimbursement plans (and for such reimbursement to be at parity with that of psychiatrists). Leonard Small, Rogers Wright, Milton Theaman, and Nicholas Cummings were central in this undertaking.The committee also created model “freedom-of-choice” legislation, which individual state psy- chological associations could try to get adopted in their state (Cummings, 1979). Legislative language was such that if an insurance company reimbursed a psychiatrist for a particular service, it must also provide such reimbursement when the same service is provided by a qualiﬁed licensed psychologist. Later, professional psychologists would use the courts as well in their struggle for equality. It took, for example, a lawsuit ﬁled by the APA against the American Psychoana- lytic Institute to establish the right of psychologists to be trained in psychoanalytic centers controlled by the institute (DeAngelis, 1989). The APA Practice Directorate, which was formed in the early 1990s by combining the Ofﬁce of Professional Practice and the Ofﬁce of Professional Affairs, evaluates cases and develops selected ones that further the independent practice of psychology. The directorate’s efforts are partly funded by a yearly special assessment to all mem- bers who engage in practice activities. Divisions of the APA in which at least 50% of its members contribute to the as- sessment are identiﬁed as “practice Divisions.”

Efforts outside of the APA also contributed to the devel- opment of standards of excellence for practitioners. The American Board of Examiners in Professional Psychology (ABEPP) was created in 1947 “to award diplomas for ad- vanced competency in the ﬁeld” (Riess, 1992, p. 769). Later the term “Examiners” was omitted, and at least ﬁve separate specialty boards exist today under the aegis of the parent organization.

Following the conference in Boulder, several other con- ferences were held to establish training guidelines for a clinical as well as for other professional subspecialties (see Cohen, 1992), but the 1973 “Vail Conference” (also in Colorado) gave credence to the burgeoning programs offer- ing doctor of psychology (PsyD) degrees from universities as well as from freestanding schools (Korman, 1974). The history of the establishment of professional schools and the PsyD degree has been well documented by Peterson (1992) and Stricker and Cummings (1992). As of June 2001, there were 53 such schools accredited by the APA. Professional schools now graduate over 50% of all clinical students.