---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e1a5e225805e69c926ffa1db3dbeb45b18dced31
title: untitled
---
# PROFESSIONAL PRACTICE

In 1984, Joseph D. Matarazzo applied to the state of Oregon for the incorporation of the American Board of Health Psy- chology (ABHP). His vision was that professional practice within health psychology would soon mature sufﬁciently to become a bonaﬁde specialty worthy of board certiﬁcation from the American Board of Professional Psychology (ABPP). The purpose of the ABHP was “(1) to deﬁne stan- dards, conduct examinations, grant diplomas and encourage the pursuit of excellence in the practice of Health Psychol- ogy; (2) to serve the public welfare by preparing and furnish- ing to proper persons and agencies lists of specialists who have been awarded certiﬁcates” (ABHP By-laws, Section II). In 1991, ABHP president Cynthia D. Belar and vice- president Timothy B. Jeffrey presented a petition to ABPP for recognition of clinical health psychology as a specialty in professional psychology. In December of that year, the ﬁrst health psychology diplomate examinations were held. In May 1993, after several years of ﬁne-tuning and monitoring, the ABPP formally admitted the ABHP into full afﬁliation.

When the APA developed a formal mechanism for recog- nition of specialties, health psychology was one of the ﬁrst to apply. Upon recommendation of the Commission on the Recognition of Specialties and Proﬁciencies in Professional Psychology, the APA Council of Representatives recognized clinical health psychology as a specialty in professional prac- tice in 1997. The term “clinical” had been added to the name in this petition to avoid confusing the ﬁeld and the public about education and training standards for those preparing for careers in practice versus those preparing for careers solely in research. In general, health psychologists preparing for careers in teaching and research alone were not interested in the kinds of accreditation and credentialing processes important to those preparing for careers in practice with the public. Because ABPPrecognized the specialty as health psy- chology and the APArecognized it as clinical health psychol- ogy, to maintain consistency in the profession, ABHP changed its name in 1998 to the American Board of Clinical Health Psychology.

Althoughhealthpsychologyhasbecomeawell-established disciplinary domain within psychology in Europe, the regula- tion of the profession in Europe is very diverse. Some countries, such as England, Holland, and Austria, have licensing and registration procedures (Johnston & Weinman, 1995; Strauss-Blasche, 1998; Taal, 1998; Weinman, 1998) whereasothers,suchasGreece,Romania,andPortugal,donot (Anagnostopoulu, 1998; Baban, 1998; McIntyre, 1998). The lackofregulationposesproblemsintermsofqualitycontrolof services provided and could have damaging effects on the credibility of the profession. In general, it appears that having a division of health psychology within the country’s national association is an important step towards regulation of the profession. The position of the European Federation of Professional Psychologists’Associations (EFPPA) is that reg- ulation should be done at a national and not European level (Lunt & Poortinga, 1996). However, they have established training guidelines for professional health psychologists in an attempt training standards across all European countries.

to deﬁne minimal
