---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6e745a66825adcd8fd836f3f1d55c58d4a9b96c1
title: untitled
---
# 112 Cognition and Learning

taught that there is a transcendental and unchanging realm of Truth and that we can know it by the right use of reason.

Plato also taught that some truths are innate. Affected by Eastern religions, Plato believed in reincarnation and pro- posed that between incarnations our soul dwells in the region of the Forms, carrying this knowledge with them into their next rebirth. Overcome by bodily senses and desires, the soul loses its knowledge of the Forms. However, because worldly objects resemble the Forms of which they are copies, experi- encing them reactivates the innate knowledge the soul ac- quired in heaven. In this way, universal concepts such as cat or tree are formed out of perceptions of individual cats or trees.Thus, logic, experience, and most importantly Socrates’ elenchus draw out Truths potentially present from birth.

Between them, Socrates and Plato began to investigate a problem in the study of cognition that would vex later philosophers and that is now of great importance in the study of cognitive development. Some beliefs are clearly matters of local, personal experience, capturing facts that are not universal. An American child learns the list of Presi- dents, while a Japanese child learns the list of Emperors. Another set of beliefs is held pretty universally but seems to be rooted in experience. American and Japanese children both know that ﬁre is hot. There are other universal beliefs, however, whose source is harder to pin down. Socrates observed that people tended to share intuitions about what actions are just and which are unjust. Everyone agrees that theft and murder are wrong; disagreement tends to begin when we try to say why. Plato argued that the truth of the Pythagorean theorem is universal, but belief in it derives not from experience—we don’t measure the squares on 100 right-angled triangles and conclude that a2 (cid:11) b2 (cid:2) c2, p (cid:12) .0001—but from universal logic and universal innate ideas. Jean Piaget would later show that children acquire basic beliefs about physical reality, such as conservation of physical properties, without being tutored. The source and manner of acquisition of these kinds of beliefs divided philosophers and divide cognitive scientists.

Plato’s great student was Aristotle, but he differed sharply from his teacher. For present purposes, two differences were paramount. The ﬁrst was a difference of temperament and cast of mind. Plato’s philosophy had a religious cast to it, with its soul–body dualism, reincarnation, and positing of heavenly Forms. Aristotle was basically a scientist, his spe- cialty being marine biology. Aristotle rejected the transcen- dental world of the Forms, although he did not give up on universal truths. Second, and in part a consequence of the ﬁrst, Aristotle was an empiricist. He believed universal con- cepts were built up by noting similarities and differences between the objects of one’s experience. Thus, the concept of

cat would consist of the features observably shared by all cats. Postulating Forms and innate ideas of them was unnec- essary, said Aristotle. Nevertheless, Aristotle retained Plato’s idea that there is a universal and eternal essence of catness, or of any other universal concept. He did not believe, as later empiricists would, that concepts are human constructions. Aristotle was arguably the ﬁrst cognitive scientist (Nussbaum & Rorty, 1992). Socrates was interested in teaching compelling moral truths and said little about the psychologyinvolved.Withhisdistrustofthesensesandother- worldly orientation, Plato, too, said little about the mecha- nisms of perception or thought. Aristotle, the scientist, who believed all truths beginwith sensations of theexternal world, proposed sophisticated theories of the psychology of cogni- tion. His treatment of the animal and human mind may be cast, somewhat anachronistically, of course, in the form of an information-processing diagram (Figure 6.2).

Cognitive processing begins with sensation of the outside world by the special senses, each of which registers one type of sensory information. Aristotle recognized the existence of what would later be called the problem of sensory integration, orthebindingproblem.Experiencestartsoutwiththediscrete andqualitativelyverydifferentsensationsofsight,sound,and so forth. Yet we experience not a whirl of unattached sensa- tions (William James’s famous “blooming, buzzing, confu- sion”) but coherent objects possessing multiple sensory features. Aristotle posited a mental faculty—today cognitive scientists might call it a mental module—to handle the prob- lem. Common sense integrated the separate streams of sensa- tion into perception of a whole object. This problem of object perception or pattern recognition remains a source of con- troversy in cognitive psychology and artiﬁcial intelligence. Images of objects could be held before the mind’s eye by im- agination and stored away in, and retrieved from, memory. So far, we have remained within the mind of animals,Aristotle’s
