# ATriad of Towering Theorists

But theory in developmental psychology was not dead. On the contrary, this was an era of fragmentation, and markedly different theoretical approaches to the study of development were all competing for support. In the United States, behav- iorism under the leadership of John B. Watson (1878–1958) was a force to be reckoned with, with its strict views that children’s development was the consequence of conditioning by the environment. According to Watson, children learn everything, from skills to fears. All behavior begins as a sim- ple reﬂex and is conditioned over time. Fears are most easily conditioned through pairing with loud noise; love is created by fondling; even verbal behavior and thinking begin as babbling, then grow in complexity as they are conditioned to objects in the environment. Watson’s (1913, 1924) ex- perimental demonstrations of conditioning, most famously of little Albert, did much to place the newly emerging ﬁeld of child development on a solid scientiﬁc footing.

Meanwhile, other viewpoints were emerging as signiﬁcant challengestoabehavioralviewofdevelopment.Mostdirectly in opposition to Watson’s position was Gesell’s maturational

approach to development, which suggested that development unfolds in a series of steps, ﬁxed and predetermined in order. Only under extreme conditions, such as famine, war, or poverty,arechildrenthrownoffthisbiologicallyprogrammed timetable. According to Gesell, the tendency to grow is the strongest force in life, and the inevitableness and surety of maturation are the most impressive characteristics of early development. “The inborn tendency toward optimum devel- opment is so inveterate that [the child] beneﬁts liberally from what is good in our practice, and suffers less than he logi- cally should from our unenlightenment” (Gesell, 1928, p. 360). Gesell’s years of careful observation produced a corpus of work that was not only a highly sophisticated account of motor development but an early version of a dy- namic systems view of development (Thelen, 1993).

At the same time, Jean Piaget (1896–1980) was emerging as an inﬂuential theorist in Europe and offered a further con- trast with prevailing American views. Piaget offered not only a rich description of children’s cognitive progress from infancy to adolescence but the ﬁrst fully developed theory of stages of cognitive development. In a series of books, Piaget outlined four major stages of cognitive development, the stages of sensorimotor development (0 to 2 years), pre- operational development (2 to 6 years), concrete operations (6 to 12 years), and formal operations. Children were ob- served to pass through these stages in a ﬁxed and sequential order as they moved toward increasingly abstract modes of thought. His theory and empirical demonstrations over the span of more than half a century place him with Freud in the forefront of child development theorists of the twentieth century. Although there have been challenges to his origi- nality with credible claims that much of his theory was an- ticipated by Baldwin (Cahan, 1984), his uncanny ability to design tasks to test his theoretical propositions secured his scientiﬁc reputation.