# Industrial-Organizational Psychology

(1940) found that those reporting to work in industry did not call themselves industrial psychologists.

After World War II, employment opportunities outside of academia exploded. Each branch of the armed services cre- ated centers of research activity to continue the beneﬁts of World War II efforts. Anumber of psychological research or- ganizations, consulting ﬁrms, and university research centers were formed. Private industry continued to hire I-O psychol- ogists, and some companies established their own research groups. Areas of activities included job analysis and job eval- uation, salaries and wages, selection and placement, promo- tions, training, performance appraisal, job satisfaction and morale, counseling and guidance, labor relations, industrial hygiene, accidents and safety, and equipment design (e.g., Canter, 1948). In 1959, McCollom found at least 1,000 psy- chologists who were employed full-time industry in the United States (McCollom, 1959).

Thirty years later, Howard (1990) reported that of the 1,739 SIOP members who responded to her survey and were employedfull-time,36%wereemployedinacademicsettings and 57% reported working in industry, including private or- ganizations (21%), public organizations (7%), and consulting (29%). Eight percent responded that they worked in other set- tings (e.g., health service, research organizations). O’Connor and Ryan (1996) reported that of the 1,873 SIOP members who responded to their survey and were employed full-time, 39.1% indicated they worked in academic settings and 54.9% were employed in industry, including private organiza- tions (15.1%), public organizations (7.1%), and consulting (32.7%). Six percent responded that they worked in other set- tings (e.g., health/clinical). Recently, the SIOP Administra- tive Ofﬁce (Lee Hakel, personal communication, August 4, 2000) reported that of the 3,286 SIOP members (89.9% of total members) providing information about their employers, 36.1% were in academic positions, 17.1% held full-time posi- tions in private organizations, 6.3% were in public organiza- tions, 34.3% were in consulting, and 5.9% worked for health care or other employers (e.g., research organizations). Two notable shifts between 1990 and 2000 can be observed: (a) a decrease in the relative percentage of individuals employed in private organizations, and (b) an increase in the relative per- centage of individuals working in external consulting. One possible explanation is the outsourcing of work and down- sizing of private organizations (O’Connor & Ryan, 1996). Eminent I-O psychologists recently expressed concerns about the multitude of inexperienced consultants (C. H. Lawshe Jr., personal communication, June 1, 2000; Locke, 2000).

A prodigious number of employment opportunities in I-O psychology are apparent from examining the SIOP- APA Division 14 membership. This data, however, may

underestimate the actual number of individuals and positions because many I-O psychologists, especially practitioners, do not join APA or SIOP (Finch & Odoroff, 1939; Katzell & Austin, 1992). Aperusal of the job openings on the SIOPWeb site and published in The Industrial-Organizational Psychol- ogist (TIP) reveals a plethora of options, especially in the past decade. London and Moses (1990) observed that the role of I-O psychologists has evolved from that of technician- analyst to change agent or strategist.