# The Rise of the Behavioral Laboratories

measure of the very small amount of time the current had been on.

this “galvanometric stopwatch,” Helmholtz measured the speed of the neural impulse in a frog’s leg. He knew that mild electrical stimulation of the motor nerve that ran the length of the leg would cause a twitch in the foot muscle, and by balancing the foot on a switch, this movement could be used to turn off a current. When the current was turned on the galvanometer was set in motion, but when the foot twitched it was turned off. He now compared the times when the nerve was stimulated at differ- ent locations along the nerve ﬁber. He found that a point four inches from the muscle took 0.003 seconds longer than a point only one inch away, meaning that the nerve impulse was traveling at about 83 feet per second.

Now armed with

The next step was to apply this technique to humans. He trained subjects to press a button whenever they felt a stimu- lus applied to their leg. Although the results were more vari- able than those for the frog, reaction times tended to be longer when the stimulus was applied to the toe than when applied to the thigh. Calculations showed that humans had a faster neural impulse travel speed than the frog, in excess of 165 feet per second, and perhaps up to around 300 feet per second.

It would take a few years for the signiﬁcance of these experiments to register with the scientiﬁc world—partly be- cause the results were too astonishing to believe. From a phe- nomenological perspective mental processes are subjectively experienced as occurring instantaneously, and physiologists believed that the neurological events associated with them should be instantaneous as well. The idea that it takes a ﬁnite time for events to occur was difﬁcult to believe. Nonetheless, this new reaction-time methodology would allow the ﬁrst true psychological laboratory to begin its testing program. Wundt was quite aware of Helmhotz’s work, since he had not only trained brieﬂy with Helmholtz’s mentor Johannes Müller but served as Helmholtz’s assistant at Heidelberg. When Wundt established the ﬁrst psychological laboratory at Leipzig in 1879, one of the major objective methodological tools that he would employ would be “mental chronometry,” or reaction time, building on some earlier work of the Dutch physiologist Frans Cornelis Donders (1817–1881). Reaction- time methodology allowed Wundt to demonstrate a scientiﬁc basis for psychological research. The philosophic basis for this undertaking would come from Johann Friedrich Herbart (1776–1841), who suggested that the study of mental phe- nomena should be (a) empirical; (b) dynamic, in the sense that ideas and experiences can interact and vary over time; and (c) mathematical. To this substrate, Wundt added that the study of mental phenomena should use the technology,

101