## Early Enthusiasts forApplying Psychology to the Law: Freud and Münsterberg

The early years of the twentieth century saw several signiﬁ- cantattemptstoinjecttheyoungdisciplineofpsychologyinto the legal system. Two early leaders with very different per- spectives, Sigmund Freud and Hugo Münsterberg (neither of whom was shy about asserting the value and applicability of his nascent ﬁeld), argued that psychology, even in its present early state, had important applications for the law. In a 1906 speech to Austrian judges, Freud (1906/1959) asserted that knowledge of psychological processes was very important for their jobs. Freud suggested that procedures adapted from psy- choanalysis, especially the word-association technique, could establish a “new method of investigation, the aim of which is to compel the accused person himself to establish his own guilt or innocence by objective signs” (p. 103). Freud sug- gested further that “The task of the therapist . . . is the same as that of the examining magistrate. We have to uncover the hid- den psychical material; and in order to do this we have in- vented a number of detective devices, some of which it seems that you gentlemen of the law are now about to copy from us” (p. 108). Freud’s optimism about the eagerness with which the law would embrace psychological principles and methods was not borne out, however.

In the early years of the twentieth century, another strong voice asserting that psychology was of great value for the law was that of Hugo Münsterberg. Münsterberg, a Harvard pro- fessor, had emigrated from Germany in 1892 at the invitation of William James. He became president of the American Psy- chological Association (APA) a decade later. Münsterberg had an arrogant manner and often adopted a pugnacious, somewhat sensationalized, self-promoting stand in his writ- ings. In his controversial book, On the Witness Stand (1908), which was actually a collection of previously published magazine articles, Münsterberg argued in strong terms lawyers should pay close attention to psychology. that Münsterberg’s arguments that psychology had much to offer the legal system, and the legal system’s generally negative reaction to this assertion, illustrate the often acrimonious

debate between psychologists and the legal community that continued intermittently for the rest of the century. He as- serted that “the lawyer alone is obdurate” in failing to recog- nize the importance of applied psychology.

Münsterberg’s assertions were so arrogant that they pro- voked a scathing response from legal scholar John Wigmore (1909), who created “transcripts” of a mythical libel trial in which Professor Münsterberg was sued for libel by the legal ﬁeld for his assertions and was found guilty of claiming more than he could offer. The plaintiffs’ lawyer, Mr. Tyro, criticized the lack of relevant research publications available (none had yet been published in English when Münsterberg’s book was published), and noted that eminent European psy- chologists such as Sigmund Freud and Wilhelm Stern had cautioned against overzealous application of psychological ﬁndings. In 1906, Stern had written, “It is not yet time to speak of the practical use of this method; neither too great optimism nor too great skepticism is ﬁtting. Thus far it has not yet passed beyond the laboratory stage. An extensive series of purely methodological work will be required before it can be thought of for application to the larger ﬁeld of practice. . . . It is still premature to discuss its forensic use” (quoted in Wigmore, 1909, p. 414). Mr. Tyro accused Profes- sor Münsterberg of committing “the whimsical mistake of bearing testimony against our innocent profession . . . for ne- glecting to use new and ‘exact’ methods which were and are so little ‘exact’ and so incapable of forensic use that even their well-wishers confess that thousands of experiments and years of research will be required before they will be practi- cable, if ever” (Wigmore, 1909, p. 415).

It should be noted that Wigmore criticized his own ﬁeld as well. In his article, the trial judge, after receiving the jury’s verdict in favor of the plaintiffs, pointed out that “No country in the world was probably so far behind in the scientiﬁc study of the criminal law as affected by the contributory sciences of sociology, anthropology, psychology, and medicine. In no [other] country had the legal profession taken so little interest in ﬁnding out or using what those other sciences were doing” (p. 433). Mr. Tyro expressed the desire that “their whole pro- fession would expect and hope to go forward hereafter with the other profession [psychology] in joint endeavor to fruitful ends. They would put aside mutual distrust and public fault- ﬁnding.” He urged the “friendly and energetic alliance of psychology and law, in the noble cause of justice” (p. 432). After Wigmore’s devastating critique, American psychol- ogists “left the law rather severely alone,” in the words of Hutchins (1927, p. 678) two decades later. Many years later, Bersoff (1999, p. 375) suggested that Münsterberg’s work was so viliﬁed by legal scholars “that it almost irreparably damaged the nascent attempt to apply the behavioral sciences

Early Attempts to Apply Psychological or Psychiatric Knowledge to the Legal System 395

to the law.” Although it has been suggested (Kuna, 1978) that Münsterberg was more an opportunist than a trailblazer, some (e.g., Bartol & Bartol, 1999, p. 7) suggest that he still made a major contribution by drawing attention to the possi- bility of applying psychology to legal issues.