# The Association for Women in Psychology

In March 1969, a group of women in the Psychologists for Social Action formed a Women’s Consortium. They orga- nized a symposium for the 1969 APA convention called “Woman as Subject,” as opposed to “woman as sex object.” Although the symposium was not sponsored by any division and was publicized only via ﬂyers posted in the public areas of the hotel, 400 people, mostly women, attended (Berman, 1995). Two other groups of women independently organized paper sessions and workshops, also unofﬁcially. During these sessions, a petition was circulated demanding that the APA examine and rectify sexist discrimination in the organization and in psychology departments. Another petition called for theAPAto pass a resolution stating that abortion (then illegal in most states) was a civil right of pregnant women. A core group of about 35 psychologists (women and men) continued to meet in the months following the convention, and they laid the groundwork for a new organization, the Association for Women in Psychology (AWP).AWP’s purpose was deﬁned in an initial statement: “AWP is dedicated to maximizing the effectiveness of, and the professional opportunities for, women psychologists, and to exploring the contributions which psychology can, does, and should make to the deﬁni- tion,investigation,andmodiﬁcationofcurrentsexrolestereo- types” (Association for Women in Psychology, 1970, p. 1). In 1970, theAWPpresented 32 resolutions and 18 motions totheAPAattheannualAPAconvention.Theseweredesigned to overhaul the way the APA and university departments of psychology operated (Tiefer, 1991). In response, theAPAap- pointed a Task Force on the Status of Women, chaired by Helen S.Astin.TheTask Force Report documented inequities within the ﬁeld. Among other recommendations, it recom- mended that a division be created to address deﬁciencies in

psychologicalknowledgeaboutwomen.Despitemuchskepti- cism and covert resistance in the APA, the division, Division 35, was formally approved in 1973 (see below).

The AWP did not dissolve with the establishment of the division; instead, it continued to exist as a parallel organiza- tion independent of the APA. Its activities continued to focus on efforts to reshape the APA. In addition, its members en- deavored to devise methods to govern themselves that did not recapitulate the hierarchical structures of the organizations they were trying to change (Tiefer, 1991). Most important, the AWP provided a venue for sharing feminist ideas and knowledge and for supporting and mentoring its members. For example, the AWP provided lesbian psychologists their earliest organizational home. In 1973, the organization ex- panded its by-laws to incorporate the following statement of purpose: “Helping women create individual sexual identities through which they may freely and responsibly express themselves, provided such expression does not oppress other individuals” (AWP newsletter, 1973, p. 1).

The AWP has sustained itself to the present, with a na- tional and international membership that includes individuals from psychology and related disciplines. The AWP holds an- nual national conventions, as well as regional meetings, and initiates and funds numerous projects.

The Society for the Psychology of Women of the American Psychological Association (Division 35)

The Society for the Psychology of Women (formerly called the Division of the Psychology of Women) has the purpose of “promoting research and the study of women, and encourag- ing the integration of this information about women with cur- rent psychological knowledge and beliefs in order to apply the gained knowledge to the society and its institutions” (American Psychological Association Division of the Psy- chology of Women, 1989, p. 1).

is multidimensional (Mednick & Urbanski, 1991). Its founders viewed social ac- tion research as important. They also recognized that in order to inﬂuence the discipline and society, the ﬁeld of the psy- chology of women and gender had to become a recognized academic ﬁeld. The division has also supported the develop- ment of clinical knowledge and principles of clinical practice consistent with feminist ideals. Another important goal has been placing women in leadership positions in the APA gov- ernance structure. The division’s representatives to APA’s governing Council of Representatives formed a Women’s Caucus in the Council. This caucus has supported proposals that furthered the interests of women and minority groups.