# 78 Comparative Psychology

implications and permitted reinterpretation of many phenom- ena. If a nest of eggs is left unguarded in a colony of gulls, for example, other members of the colony will eat the eggs. This makeslittlesenseifallweretheretoperpetuatethespeciesbut is easy to understand if competition was at the level of the in- dividual, with each selected to get its genes into the next gen- eration. It had been believed that, at high densities, some species temporarily curtail reproduction in order not to over- exploit the available environmental resources. This became reinterpreted as a temporary “strategy” that could beneﬁt the lifetime reproductive success of an individual by preserving energy during hard times. The extreme form of this approach was Richard Dawkins’s (1976) selﬁsh gene theory.

The second new principle concerned inclusive ﬁtness. The term ﬁtness refers to the relative contribution of different in- dividuals to future gene pools. It was noted that an individual shares more genes with close relatives than with those to which one is unrelated. There are thus at least two ways in which one’s genes can be transmitted to the next generation. One is through reproduction (direct ﬁtness); the other is through facilitating the reproduction of close relatives (indi- rect ﬁtness or kin selection). Inclusive ﬁtness is, essentially, the sum of the two. Thus, what might appear to be altruistic behavior, which might lower one’s ﬁtness, might be adaptive in the long run. One might lower one’s direct ﬁtness but gain even more indirect ﬁtness in the process. The bottom line became lifetime inclusive ﬁtness.

These two principles, and some others associated with them, led many students of animal behavior, both inside and outside of psychology, to reorient their research programs. Many students became interested in the study of the evolu- tionary causes of behavior (ultimate causation) as opposed to the immediate and developmental causes (proximate causa- tion). There were many studies of the role of kinship in be- havior. A large number of species were found to modulate their behavior depending on the degree of kinship shared with others with which they interacted (e.g., Holmes & Sherman, 1982; R. H. Porter, 1988). Sexual selection, a topic emphasized by Darwin in 1871, became a major focus of research, with psychologists emphasizing studies of mate choice (e.g., Beauchamp, Yamazaki, & Boyse, 1985) and male–male competition for mates (e.g., LeBoeuf, 1974). Oth- ers sharpened evolutionary interpretations of phenomena of research on learning (e.g., Hollis, 1990; Kamil & Clements, 1990; Timberlake, 1990). Evolutionary perspectives had been a part of comparative psychology since its founding; now studies became more reﬁned and were addressed more speciﬁcally to evolutionary principles.

This orientation had been somewhat diffuse until E. O. Wilson (1975) organized and named the ﬁeld in his Sociobi- ology: The New Synthesis. Although Wilson predicted the

demise of comparative psychology, the ﬁeld was, in fact, strengthened by the new perspective. The ﬁrst 26 chapters of Wilson’s book provided a synthesis of much work related to the ultimate causation of animal behavior. In the ﬁnal chap- ter, however, Wilson applied these principles to human be- havior. This approach proved highly controversial. Although some careful research on human behavior stemmed from this approach (e.g., Daly & Wilson, 1978), other writings rested on less solid ground. A split developed between the contro- versial studies of human behavior and those less controver- sial studies of animals. The term behavioral ecology was coined, in part, so that students of animal behavior could dis- tance themselves from some of the more speculative studies of humans.

More recently, sociobiology has been reborn as evolu- tionary psychology. An emphasis in the older sociobiology had been upon the ways in which existing patterns of human behavior enhanced ﬁtness. In the newer perspective, the focus shifted to adaptiveness at the time that mecha- nisms of behavior evolved in the ancestors of humans, and it was recognized that many behavior patterns and tenden- cies, such as our attraction to sweet foods, might not be as adaptive under present conditions (e.g., Cosmides & Tooby, 1987).