# 158 Emotion

Greeks approached emotion with a form of double-entry bookkeeping, dealing both with psychic and somatic aspects of emotional phenomena (Brett, 1928). Aristotle was the ex- ception to his times when he considered feelings as natural phenomena, and his descriptions of the individual passions remain a model of naturalistic observation. But Aristotle did not allow for simple, pure affective processes. As he so often did, Aristotle sounded a more modern note when his descrip- tion of emotion required the cognitive elements of a percept, an affective component of pleasantness/unpleasantness, and a conative (motivational) effort (Hammond, 1902).

Post-Aristotelian philosophy devoted much effort to vari- ous analyses of the emotions, yet Aristotle continued to dom- inate much of the thought of the Middle Ages well into the ﬁfteenth century. The age of the Scholastics was often preoc- cupied with commentary and theological speculations and frequently relegated emotions to an expression of animal spirits, very distinct from the moral spirit and intellect with which the ancients had wrestled. The main contribution to the history of thought about emotion came from the great sys- tematizer, Thomas Aquinas. He also asserted that emotions disturb thought and should be controlled, but his classiﬁca- tions barely survived to the Renaissance. On the whole, the period of theological dominance was best described in the late sixteenth century by Suarez (1856): Pauca dicunt et in variis locis (“They say little and do so in various places”). The Renaissance came late in the history of the emotions, though there was an early whiff of fresh air in the early- sixteenth-century work of the Spanish philosopher Juan Luis Vives, who explored and described the different passions (emotions) with empirical concern and clarity. However, the important shift came with René Descartes and his publication in 1649 of his Les passions de l’âme (The Passions of the Soul) (Descartes, 1649). In the spirit of his day, he started afresh, postulating six primary passions, with all the rest con- structed of those six: wonder, love, hate, desire, joy, and sad- ness. This fundamentalist approach to constructing emotions is still with us, though Descartes’ love, desire, and wonder have been substituted by other, more contemporary, states such as disgust, guilt, and shame.

Later in the seventeenth century Baruch Spinoza (1677/ 1876) broke with the still popular view of the emotions as bothersome intrusions and insisted that they be seen as nat- ural and lawful phenomena. He is one of the major expositors of the notion that the passions are essentially conative, that is, derived from motivational forces, just as Aristotle and Hobbes had asserted before him. For Spinoza the passions— pleasure, pain, and desire—are all derived from the drive to self-preservation, to maintain one’s own existence. By the late eighteenth century, Immanuel Kant deﬁnitively made

feelings into a special class of psychical processes—a third mental faculty added to the other two of knowing and appeti- tion (Kant, 1800). Kant, who dominated the early nineteenth century in philosophy in general, also did so in the realm of feelings and emotion. His view of feelings/emotions as a sep- arate faculty was maintained well into the twentieth century, as was his distinction between (temporary) emotions and (lasting) passions.

With the nineteenth century, classiﬁcation became a major theme of the new scientism, and the emotions followed suit. For example, Wilhelm Wundt’s system went from simple to complex feelings and then to true emotions. Complex emo- tions were analyzed in terms of a half dozen or more types and tokens of feelings (Wundt, 1891). Two other major con- tributors to the nineteenth-century classiﬁcatory ambience were Alexander Bain and James McCosh. Bain, arguably the last great ﬁgure of British associationism, contributed to the enumerative wars by naming love, anger, and fear as pri- mary emotions, but he also muddied the waters by needless multiplication of the list of emotions and introducing such un- usual entries as emotions of property, power, and knowledge (Bain, 1859/1875). Another classiﬁer popular in the United States was McCosh, a member of the Scottish school of psy- chology, who divided the ﬁeld into appetences (the desire for speciﬁc objects), ideas, excitements, and organic affections (pleasant and unpleasant bodily reactions) (McCosh, 1880). All these rather evanescent attempts were brought to an end by the James-Lange-Sergi theory, to which I shall return shortly. But ﬁrst it is necessary to describe the landscape of the new century that William James introduced, to show how multifaceted the psychology of emotion became and how confused it may have looked, just as we enter another century with as many, and sometimes as different, theoretical positions as marked the twentieth.

The best illustration of the confusion of the new century is shown in three volumes of symposia on “Feelings and Emo- tions” (Arnold, 1970; Reymert, 1928, 1950). The 101 contri- butions to the three volumes represent one or two dozen different theories of emotion. Are we to follow each of these many strands through the century? Can we select one or two preeminent survivors? Probably not, because too many of these different strands still have respectable defenders today. All we can do is to pay attention to those that appear to be cu- mulative, persistent, and important. Some sense of the sweep of the past 70 years is conveyed by the participants in the three symposia. The 1928 volume conveys a deﬁnite sense of history. It is full of the great names: Spearman, Claparède, Bühler, McDougall, Woodworth, Carr, Cannon, Bekhterev, Pieron, Janet, Adler, and many more. The 1950 volume has a modern ﬂavor; there are glimpses of the cold war and of the

hope for psychology and its applications just after World War II. The 1970 volume seems to be in a place-holding position. Many of the names that will make a difference in the late twentieth century appear, but no discernible theme is apparent. There is also some philosophical speculation, strangely out of place, written by both philosophers and psychologists with a charming disregard of past or present evidence. The best summary of the dilemma of the ﬁeld was provided by Madison Bentley in the 1928 volume. He knew then what many psychologists still fail to accept today, that there is no commonly or even superﬁcially acceptable deﬁnition of what a psychology of emotion is about. And he concludes: “Whether emotion is today more than the heading of a chapter, I am still doubtful.”