# Diversiﬁcation

Not only did the federal government help to create the pro- fession of counseling psychology, it also supported students entering the ﬁeld through training stipends provided by the VA and the USPHS and through beneﬁts under provisions of the GI bill (Baker & Benjamin, in press). As counseling psy- chology moved closer to clinical psychology, it distanced itself from its earlier identiﬁcation with the National Voca- tional Guidance Association, which together with others in- terested in guidance and student personnel work formed the American Personnel and Guidance Association (now known as the American Counseling Association). Many members of Division 17 shared membership in these associations, often- times serving as ofﬁcers in each (Pepinsky, Hill-Frederick, & Epperson, 1978).

The number of settings and activities that counseling psychologists concerned themselves with seemed to ex- plode. Many pursued the opportunities available through the VA, others remained closer to student personnel work, and still others, such as Donald Super, Anne Roe, and David Tiedeman, vigorously pursued programs of research centered around vocational development (Blocher, 2000).

The launch of the Russian satellite Sputnik on October 4, 1957, provided new opportunities for counseling psychology. Passage of the National Defense Education Act (NDEA) of 1958 again focused considerable attention upon the nation’s schools. There were widespread concerns that the public schools were not producing enough students interested in math and science. The ﬁnger of blame pointed directly at pro- gressive education, which was faulted for failing to provide a demanding enough curriculum that would bring out the best in American youth. Among other things, the NDEA autho- rized funds to identify public school students who might show promise in math and science. To identify those

students, a national program of testing would be necessary, a program that at its core would require signiﬁcant numbers of school counselors who could identify and direct students with potential. Just as World War II had identiﬁed shortages of mental health professionals, NDEAidentiﬁed shortages of school counselors and quickly supplied funding to colleges and universities to conduct counseling and guidance insti- tutes. Approximately 80 institutes per year were conducted. These could be summer institutes of 6 to 8 weeks or yearlong sequences. Participants were generally drawn from the ranks of high school guidance counselors, who were attracted to the opportunities and the stipends the institutes offered (Tyler, 1960).

Institute staffs were mostly educational psychologists, counseling psychologists, and developmental psychologists. Topics of study included tests and measurement, statistics, and individual and group counseling methods. The use of groupexperienceswascommon,aswassupervisedpracticum experience. The institutes were supported for 8 years from 1958 to 1966, at which time they continued under a variety of educational acts. The institutes provided employment for counseling psychologists and helped to increase the visibility of counseling psychology, but by and large the program increased demand for counselor educators, enhancing the presence of such programs on university campuses and mak- ing training requirements for graduate degrees in counseling and guidance more concrete. In the 8 years of the program, some 44,000 counselors were trained (Baker, 2000; Tyler, 1960).