# THE RISE OF THE BEHAVIORAL LABORATORIES

Although Helmholtz was doing experimentation on percep- tual phenomena, he did not call himself a psychologist and would have claimed that he was studying physiology or physics rather than psychology. Hence, no one credits Helmholtz with having the ﬁrst experimental lab in psychol- ogy. Helmholtz, however, did set the stage for the ﬁrst labs by establishing a particular methodology that would ﬁnd immediate acceptance and is still used today. Prior to his time, it was believed that sensory information was transmitted to whatever center needed to turn it into conscious awareness in- stantaneously. Helmholtz’s friend, Émile du Bois-Reymond (1818–1896), had studied the chemical structure of nerve ﬁbers and shown that the neural response was an electro- chemical event. Helmholtz theorized that this meant that the nervous impulse might travel more slowly than anyone had previously imagined–perhaps even slow enough to be mea- sured in a laboratory.

Unfortunately, to test his hypothesis, Helmoltz needed an instrument capable of measuring very small fractions of sec- onds, smaller than could be reliably detected by any existing timepiece. He devised such a “clock” from a simple labora- tory galvanometer. A galvanometer is an instrument that de- tects the presence and strength of an electrical current by causing a needle to deﬂect, with the amount of deﬂection cor- responding to the strength of the current. Helmholtz knew that when the current was ﬁrst turned on it took a short, but measurable, amount of time to reach its maximum level and to cause the needle to reach its maximum deﬂection. If the current was turned off before it reached its maximum, the proportion of needle deﬂection registered was an accurate