---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3fe89d4611a266a6a5bf8f885d280bef8436f0c1
title: untitled
---
# 58 Biological Psychology

pulled all these threads together into a general central theory of motivation.

Eliot Stellar worked with Clifford Morgan as an under- graduate at Harvard. After obtaining his doctorate in 1947 at Brown University, he spent several years at Johns Hopkins and joined the psychology department at the University of Pennsylvania in 1954. Stellar did extensive work on brain mechanism of motivation. He coauthored the revision of Morgan’s text in 1950 and published his inﬂuential central theory of drive in 1954.

Philip Teitelbaum (1955) did the classic work on charac- terization of, and recovery from, the lateral hypothalamic “aphagia” syndrome. He discovered the striking parallel with the ontogenetic development of feeding behavior. In addi- tion, he discovered more general aspects of the syndrome, for example, “sensory neglect.”

Frank Beach received his doctorate from the University of Chicago under Lashley in 1940 and then joined the American Museum of Natural History in New York. He moved to Yale in 1946, and then to the University of California, Berkeley, in 1958. From the beginning, he focused on brain mechanisms of sexual behavior (see Beach, 1951). As the study of sexual behavior developed, hormonal factors came to the fore and the modern ﬁeld of hormones and behavior developed. Beach played a critical role in the development of this ﬁeld, as did the biologist W. C. Young of the University of Kansas. They and their students shaped the ﬁeld as it exists today.

Even within the ﬁeld of hormones and behavior, several ﬁelds have developed. Sexual behavior has become a ﬁeld unto itself. Another important ﬁeld is the general area of stress. The endocrinologist Hans Selye was an important in- tellectual inﬂuence. Kurt Richter, a pioneering ﬁgure in this ﬁeld, took his BS at Harvard in 1917 and his doctorate at Johns Hopkins in 1921 and was a dominant inﬂuence at Hopkins. His early work was on motivation and feeding (see Richter, 1927). His pioneering “cafeteria studies” in rats are still a model (if given a wide choice of foods, they select a relatively balanced diet). Richter then focused on the adrenal gland, its role in diet and in stress. He also did pioneering work on circadian rhythms in mammals. The modern ﬁeld of stress focuses on hormonal-behavioral interactions, particu- larly adrenal hormones, as in the work of Seymore Levine (1971).

Neal Miller represents a uniquely important tradition in biological psychology. From the beginning of his career, Miller was interested in physiological mechanisms of both motivation and learning. He took his doctorate at Yale in 1935 and stayed on at Yale for many years, with a year out in 1936 at the Vienna Psychoanalytic Institute. Throughout his career he has exempliﬁed superb experimentation and an

unusual ability to synthesize. He was a pioneer in early stud- ies of punishing and rewarding brain stimulation and their roles in learning and in the study of conditioned fear (see Miller, 1948, 1961). In later years, his work focused on mechanisms of instrumental conditioning of autonomic responses—biofeedback techniques—and brain mechanisms of learning. The impact of his work is much wider than bio- logical psychology, inﬂuencing learning theory, psychiatry, and clinical medicine as well.

James Olds, whose untimely death in 1976 cut short an ex- traordinary career, made the most important discovery yet in the ﬁeld of motivation—rewarding electrical self-stimulation of the brain. He got his doctorate at Harvard and worked with Richard Solomon. Solomon, although primarily a behavioral student of learning, had considerable impact on biological psychology through his theoretical-experimental analysis of hypothetical central factors in learning. As a graduate student Olds read and was much inﬂuenced by Hebb’s Organization of Behavior and obtained a postdoctoral fellowship with Hebb at McGill in 1953. He began work there with Peter Milner. In his own words:

Just before we began our own work (using Hess’s technique for probing the brain), H. R. Delgado, W. W. Roberts, and N. E. Miller at Yale University had undertaken a similar study. They had located an area in the lower part of the mid-line system where stimulation caused the animal to avoid the behavior that provoked the electrical stimulus. We wished to investigate posi- tive as well as negative effects (that is, to learn whether stimula- tion of some areas might be sought rather than avoided by the animal).

We were not at ﬁrst concerned to hit very speciﬁc points in the brain, and, in fact, in our early tests the electrodes did not al- ways go to the particular areas in the mid-line system at which they were aimed. Our lack of aim turned out to be a fortunate happening for us. In one animal the electrode missed its target and landed not in the mid-brain reticular system but in a nerve pathway from the rhinecephalon. This led to an unexpected discovery.

In the test experiment we were using, the animal was placed in a large box with corners labeled A, B, C, and D. Whenever the animal went to corner A, its brain was given a mild electric shock by the experimenter. When the test was performed on the animal with the electrode in the rhinencephalic nerve, it kept returning to corner A. After several such returns on the ﬁrst day, it ﬁnally went to a different place and fell asleep. The next day, however, it seemed even more interested in corner A.

At this point we assumed that the stimulus must provoke curiosity; we did not yet think of it as a reward. Further exper- imentation on the same animal soon indicated, to our surprise, that its response to the stimulus was more than curiosity. On the second day, after the animal had acquired the habit of returning

to corner A to be stimulated, we began trying to draw it away to corner B, giving it an electric shock whenever it took a step in that direction. Within a matter of ﬁve minutes the animal was in corner B. After this the animal could be directed to almost any spot in the box at the will of the experimenter. Every step in the right direction was paid with a small shock; on arrival at the appointed place the animal received a longer series of shocks.

After conﬁrming this powerful effect of stimulation of brain areas by experiments with a series of animals, we set out to map the places in the brain where such an effect could be obtained. We wanted to measure the strength of the effect in each place. Here Skinner’s technique provided the means. By putting the an- imal in the “do-it-yourself” situation (i.e., pressing a lever to stimulate its own brain) we could translate the animal’s strength of “desire” into response frequency, which can be seen and measured.

The ﬁrst animal in the Skinner box ended all doubts in our minds that electric stimulation applied to some parts of the brain could indeed provide a reward for behavior. The test displayed the phenomenon in bold relief where anyone who wanted to look could see it. Left to itself in the apparatus, the animal (after about two to ﬁve minutes of learning) stimulated its own brain regu- larly about once very ﬁve seconds, taking a stimulus of a second or so every time. (1956, pp. 107–108)

We think now that this brain reward circuit Olds discov- ered underlies addictive behaviors. It includes the medial forebrain bundle (MRB) containing the ascending dopamine (and other neurotransmitters) projection system to the nu- cleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex. Activation of this sys- tem appears to be a common element in what keeps drug users taking drugs. This activity is not unique to any one drug; all addictive drugs affect this circuit.

Another direction of research in motivation and emotion relating to brain stimulation concerns elicited behaviors, par- ticularly from stimulation in the region of the hypothalamus. This work is in some ways a continuation of the early work by Hess. Thus, Hess described directed attack, from hypo- thalamic stimulation in cats, as opposed to the “sham” rage of decerebrate animals and certain other brain stimulation stud- ies (“sham” because the animal exhibited peripheral signs of rage without integrated behavior) (see Hess, 1957). John Flynn, in a most important series of studies, was able to elicit two quite different forms of attack behavior in cats—one a quiet predation that resembled normal hunting and the other a rage attack (Flynn, Vonegas, Foote, & Edwards, 1970). Elliot Valenstein analyzed a variety of elicited consumatory-like behaviors—eating, drinking, gnawing, and so forth—from hypothalamic stimulation and their possible relations to the rewarding properties of such stimulation (Valenstein, Cox, & Kakolweski, 1970).
