data/clean/untitled__chunk0706.md, before:

# 120 Cognition and Learning

with respect to our own behavior and with respect to the dog’s, because in each case the inference that humans and dogs possess recognition memory is based on observations of behavior, not on introspective access to consciousness.

Projective inferences, however, are based on drawing unprovable analogies between our own consciousness and putative animal consciousness. We are tempted to attribute a subjective mental state, happiness, to the watchful dog by analogy with our own happiness when we greet a loved one who has been absent. Objective inferences are legitimate in science, Morgan held, because they do not depend on analogy, are not emotional, and are susceptible to later veriﬁcation by experiment. Projective inferences are not scientiﬁcally legiti- mate because they result from attributing our own feelings to animals and may not be more objectively assessed. Morgan’s distinction is important, and although it is now the basis of cognitive science, it had no contemporary impact.

In the event, skepticism about mentalistic animal psychol- ogy mounted, especially as human psychology became more objective. Romanes (1883, pp. 5–6) attempted to deﬂect his critics by appealing to our everyday attribution of mentality to other people without demanding introspective veriﬁcation: “Skepticism of this kind is logically bound to deny evidence of mind, not only in the case of lower animals, but also in that of the higher, and even in that of men other than the skeptic himself. For all objections which could apply to the use of [inference] . . . would apply with equal force to the evidence of any mind other than that of the individual objector” (pp. 4–5).

Two paths to the study of animal and human cognition became clearly deﬁned. One could continue with Romanes and Morgan to treat animals and humans as creatures with minds; or one could accept the logic of Romanes’s rebuttal and treat humans and animals alike as creatures without minds. Refusing to anthropomorphize humans was the beginning of behaviorism, the study of learning without cognition.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk0706.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 9042dfaa2d95889ea8b1c5a20d072726885ff02d
title: untitled
---
# The Early Scientiﬁc Period 119

humanlike than Descartes had, and therefore as capable of some forms of cognition. This was the approach taken by the ﬁrst generation of animal psychologists beginning with George John Romanes (1848–1894). They sought to detect signs of mental life and consciousness in animals, attributing consciousness, cognition, and problem-solving abilities to even very simple creatures (Romanes, 1883). While experi- ments on animal behavior were not eschewed, most of the data Romanes and others used were anecdotal in nature.

Theoretically, inferring mental processes from behavior presented difﬁculties. It is tempting to attribute to animals complex mental processes they may not possess, as we imag- ineourselvesinsomeanimal’spredicamentandthinkourway out. Moreover, attribution of mental states to animals was complicated by the prevailing Cartesian equation of mentality with consciousness.The idea of unconscious mental states, so widely accepted today, was just beginning to develop, primar- ily in German post-Kantian idealism, but it was rejected by psychologists, who were followers of empiricism or realism (Ash, 1995). In the Cartesian framework, to attribute complex mental states to animals was to attribute to them conscious thoughts and beliefs, and critics pointed out that such infer- ences could not be checked by introspection, as they could be in humans. (At this same time, the validity of human intro- spective reports was becoming suspect, as well, strengthening critics’ case again the validity of mentalist animal psychol- ogy; see Leahey, 2000.)

C. Lloyd Morgan (1852–1936) tried to cope with these problems with his famous canon of simplicity and by an innovative attempt to pry apart the identiﬁcation of mentality with consciousness. Morgan (1886) distinguished objective inferences from projective—or, as he called them in the philosophical jargon of his time, ejective—inferences from animal behavior to animal mind. Imagine watching a dog sit- ting at a street corner at 3:30 one afternoon. As a school bus approaches, the dog gets up, wags its tail, and watches the bus slow down and then stop. The dog looks at the children get- ting off the bus and, when one boy gets off, it jumps on him, licks his face, and together the boy and the dog walk off down the street. Objectively, Morgan would say, we may infer cer- tain mental powers possessed by the dog. It must possess suf- ﬁcient perceptual skills to pick out one child from the crowd getting off the bus, and it must possess at least recognition memory, for it responds differently to one child among all the others. Such inferences are objective because they do not in- volve analogy to our own thought processes. When we see an old friend, we do not consciously match up the face we see with a stored set of remembered faces, though it is plain that such a recognition process must occur. In making an objec- tive inference, there is no difference between our viewpoint
