# 340 Clinical Psychology

calledthefatherofscientiﬁcpsychiatrybecauseheintroduced case histories and maintained records for his patients and because he tried to develop a nosology, advocated humane treatmentforthementallyill.AfamouspictureofPinel“strik- ing off the chains” of an unfortunate patient is depicted in many books on abnormal psychology and psychiatry. Con- trary to legend, Pinel was not the ﬁrst to unchain the insane. In England, a Quaker tea merchant, William Tuke (1732– 1822), established the York Retreat, where kindness and de- cency in a rural setting were provided for the disturbed. In Italy, Vincinzo Chiarugi opposed restraints and cruel mea- sures, and in the United States, Eli Todd urged physicians to practice moral treatment and established the Retreat in Hartford. Social reformers, such as Dorothea Dix, advocated the building of mental hospitals to provide humane care for the mentally ill, and during the nineteenth century more than 30 state institutions, as well as asylums in Europe, were erected as a direct result of her efforts.

By the middle of the nineteenth century, moral treatment was being employed at a number of mental hospitals amid enthusiastic reports of high recovery and discharge rates. During this same period, the profession of psychiatry was also growing. The Association of Medical Superintendents of asylums for the insane, the precursor of the American Psy- chiatric Association, was founded in 1844, about the same time as similar organizations were founded in France and England. Its major publication was the American Journal of Insanity, which became the American Journal of Psychiatry, now in 2002 is in its 159th consecutive year of publication. Breakthroughs were occurring in the scientiﬁc determina- tion of the etiologies of a variety of mental disorders. In 1826, the French physician Antoine L. Bayle found an asso- ciation between general paresis of the insane, a psychotic condition that led to dementia and paralysis, and chronic inﬂammation of the meninges. Richard von Krafft-Ebing’s experiments demonstrated that paresis was caused by syphilis. Sergei Korsakov reported the harmful effects of chronic alcoholism on brain functioning. Karl Wernicke stud- ied the effects of lesions in different areas of the brain and different forms of language disturbances or aphasias. It seemed to Emil Kraepelin, and to many other psychiatrists, that what was needed was the determination of the syn- dromes of speciﬁc disorders, research into their etiologies and their natural courses, and the development of their spe- ciﬁc treatments. For a detailed review of this period, see Alexander and Selesnik’s History of Psychiatry (1966).

Therefore, toward the end of the nineteenth century, the at- titude toward moral treatment changed. Mental hospitals began to be seen mainly as custodial institutions for the men- tally ill, who required further scientiﬁc study until appropriate

treatments could be determined. It was suggested that the improvement rates for moral treatment had not been scientif- ically determined and were probably grossly exaggerated. Lower rates of improvement with moral treatment were reported, and its defenders attributed these to a more intransi- gent and difﬁcult patient population and to a newer genera- tion of psychiatrists who lacked the zeal and conviction of earlier practitioners (Levine, 1981). Sound familiar? Addi- tional research, it was generally agreed, for this and other questions, would soon settle matters.

The major neurosis at this time was hysteria, whose symp- toms had an annoying similarity to those of many neurologi- cal disorders. Jean-Martin Charcot, a leading neurologist of his day, used a cast of hysterics who had been previ- ously hypnotized to demonstrate to his colleagues that all the various symptoms of hysteria—paralyses, crying spells, anesthesias—could be produced and modiﬁed under hypno- sis. Charcot concluded, incorrectly, that there was an intimate relationship between hysteria and hypnosis and thus those who could be hypnotized either had hysteria or were predis- posed to develop this neurosis (Goetz, Bonduelle, & Gelfand, 1995). An interested spectator at some of Charcot’s demon- strations in 1885 was the Viennese neurologist Sigmund Freud (1856–1939).

Freud had gone to Paris to learn the latest thinking about the treatment of hysteria. An older colleague of Freud’s, Josef Breuer, had become involved in an interesting case, in which the patient suggested talking about problems. This talking seemed to be of help, and Charcot’s hypnotic demonstrations supported Freud in his belief that whatever the etiology of hysteria, the symptoms could be treated and reduced by ver- bal means. By 1892, Freud abandoned hypnosis in favor of a “concentration” technique, in which the patient was directed to try to recall all memories in connection with a symptom. By 1895, Freud was talking about “psychical analysis,” or “psychoanalysis,” and his relationship with Breuer was close to an end (Breuer & Freud, 1895/1955; Gay, 1988).

Within the ﬁrst decade of the twentieth century, Freud was rapidly developing psychoanalysis as a theory of personality, which he regarded as his contribution to psychology; as a method of treatment, which he believed was of limited use because of its expense, duration, and the few analysts avail- able; and as a way of doing research. He had achieved inter- national recognition and had adherents throughout Europe and in the United States. In 1909, the eminent developmental psychologist G. Stanley Hall invited Freud to come to Clark University to address a gathering of American psychologists who would be participating in the celebration of the school’s 20th anniversary. One of the members of that audience was William James.

AN ARTISTIC SCIENCE?

William James (1842–1910), like many of the other early psychologists such as Wundt, had originally trained to be a physician. For 12 years, he labored to produce a psychology text that would serve to help him appraise the ﬁeld, and in 1890 his magnum opus, Principles of Psychology, was pub- lished. It quickly became a classic, and despite the early stage of development of scientiﬁc psychology when it was written, much within it would be of interest to clinicians today. There was a chapter on the unconscious mind and the evidence for its existence: that ideas or thoughts that are seemingly forgot- ten must be existing somewhere if they can be recalled; sleepwalkers who have no memory for what they did; our ability to sense the boundaries of our beds while asleep and to awaken close to a desired time; posthypnotic suggestions and movements carried out automatically by hysterics. In con- trast, the unconscious mind as it would soon be conceived by Freud affected human functioning all through the day and night, in dreams as well as in neurotic symptoms, in daily accidents and thoughts and memory lapses and decisions.

There was a lengthy discussion of the Self, which in James’s view was the sum total of all that the person owned: a Material Self consisting of the person’s clothing, property, body, and family; a Social Self composed of the many roles people played in different kinds of interactions; and a Spiri- tual Self, consisting of the person’s conscience and will, val- ues, and psychological faculties. And there was often conﬂict between these different aspects of self, which had to be re- solved by simply deciding what should be given expression and what should be suppressed. According to James, it was simply impossible to give expression to all aspects of oneself. James had a much more rational view of human behavior than Freud. In his own life, prior to becoming a psychologist, James had overcome feelings of depression by sheer strength of resolve. He asserted that people could control their emo- tions if they determined to do it and by exhibiting character- istics of the feeling they wished to have. In other words, to be happy, smile and act happy, and you will begin to experience happiness . . . or as Shakespeare eloquently put it in Henry V in exhorting troops to do battle bravely: “Stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood, Disguise fair nature with hard-favor’d rage” (act 3, scene 1).

An equally straightforward approach was recommended to build good habits and break bad ones. Just go to it, and allow no exceptions to the doing of the habit you wish to achieve and immediately stop doing the habit you want to break. For James, it made no sense to try to gradually wean yourself from doing what you supposedly wanted to stop doing.