---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e3fbd9063412cdbcccf673a2ba8795850d53bbab
title: untitled
---
# 436 Community Psychology

Iscoe, 1974; Kelly, 1970, 1971, 2000; Klein, 1968; Novaco & Monahan, 1980; Spivak & Shure, 1974, 1989). Within com- munity psychology, the development of a strengths perspec- tive has involved identifying the need to focus on the strengths and resources of community structures and individ- ual community members. The movement toward a strengths perspective has involved terms from different areas of knowledge. Relevant terms have included psychological health (Jahoda, 1953, 1958), psychological wellness (Cowen, 1994, 1997, 2000b), competence (Danish, 1983; Glidewell, 1977; Iscoe, 1974; Spivack & Shure, 1989), and resilience (Garmezy, 1991). For the purposes of this paper the term “strengths” will be used to represent this perspective. This perspective has served as a guiding principle for community psychologists in their attempts to develop theory and plans for action research. While a number of scholars have pursued a strengths perspective as a speciﬁc research agenda (Cowen, 1997; Spivak & Shure, 1974, 1989; Weissberg, Caplan, & Harwood, 1991), attention to this principle as a central value in the ﬁeld’s overall development has not been made explicit. Highlighting both personal and community strengths and resources became a priority for a number of researchers even before the Swampscott Conference in 1965 (Bennett et al., 1966; Cottrell, 1964; Jahoda, 1953, 1958; Lindemann, 1953; Ojemann, 1957; White, 1952, 1959). Prior to the Swampscott Conference, some participants were active in “such diverse areas of national life as the Peace Corps, the anti-poverty effort, [and] a broad movement into the ﬁeld of education” (Bennett et al., 1966, p. 4). These social change activities began to stretch the traditional professional roles of psychol- ogists, as well as the relationship between psychologists and other community members who were not “clients.” Experi- ences such as these urged psychologists to recognize and appreciate the various strengths and resources that both com- munities and their members possessed.

Lindemann’s Wellesley Project, as mentioned earlier in this chapter, is an early exemplar of how social science could pull together available community resources to promote the mental health of community members (Lindemann, 1953). The project began in 1948 and served as a model for shifting the focus from disease to health. Understanding how personal and community resources build on each other became imper- ative to the success of the Wellesley program. Similarly, Marie Jahoda, a social psychologist, proposed a focus on the psychological health of individuals rather than a focus on disease (1953, 1958). She advocated moving the deﬁnition of psychological health beyond that of the absence of mental disease, statistical normality, psychological well-being, or sheer successful survival. Instead, Jahoda discussed deﬁning psychological health in context: “Psychological health . . .

manifests itself in behavior that has a promise of success under favorable conditions” (1953, p. 351). In this way, she supported investigating the environmental factors that both facilitated and inhibited people from being successful, and helped to launch research on individuals’ adaptive coping strategies. Jahoda’s conceptualization of mental health vali- dated the emerging strengths perspective.

Like Jahoda, Cottrell (1964), a sociologist, called for an understanding of mental health in context, which required a major shift in emphasis from traditional psychiatric training or practice. In writing about the problems facing individuals, Cottrell argued that the clinical solutions quite often held by psychiatrists were “not likely to be comprehensive enough for the requirements of the situation” (p. 392). Cottrell called for a revolution in the way psychiatrists both approached and dealt with people’s problems. This “revolu- tion” involved identifying and strengthening the resources of communities: “It is my expectation that in helping American communities to discover the ways and means to become ar- ticulate, knowledgeable, effective in achieving consensus on values and their implementation, we are developing potent capabilities for coping effectively” (Cottrell, 1964, p. 398). Similar to Lindemann (1953), Cottrell believed that commu- nities rather than psychiatrists would be best equipped to deal with the issues faced by their members.

Lindemann, Cottrell, and Jahoda, though not explicitly identiﬁed as community psychologists, provide examples of social scientists moving beyond a deﬁcits focus. They rede- ﬁned our conceptualization of health as not just the absence of illness and laid the groundwork for future community psy- chologists to apply a strengths perspective to community research and action. As will be evident, throughout the evolu- tion of the ﬁeld’s theory and prevention research, this tenet of community psychology has remained a consistent theme.
