# Compulsory Schooling

Compulsory schooling laws signiﬁcantly inﬂuenced the con- ditions under which school psychological services devel- oped. Over the course of American history, the responsibility for schooling had passed from parents in the home, to schooling outside of the home, and eventually to formally established, compulsory schooling. Even in the absence of compulsory attendance laws, school enrollments grew throughout the nineteenth century. The attendance reﬂected a growing need for education to help children and youth meet society’s demand for educated employees to ﬁll newer and more technologically demanding jobs. It also reﬂected the need to inculcate a sense of moral values and character to better ensure the survival of the nation. The concern for na- tional survival was related to heightened U.S. immigration during this period. These and other forces spurred the com- pulsory schooling movement, and by 1920 all states had en- acted such legislation. Thus, during the period 1890–1920, increasingly large numbers of children were thrust upon the public schools, many of whom had never before attended school in America or elsewhere before coming to America as immigrants. Between 1890 and 1930, public school en- rollments increased from 12.7 to 25.7 million students, with secondary school enrollment increasing from 203,000 to 4.4 million. The average number of days in the school year increased from 135 to 173 (28%), and the average number of days attended increased from 86 (64% of 135 day year) to 143 (83% of 173 day year).