# Work during the Interwar Years

most social psychology. Their dismissal of the dominant meaning of the two central terms of social psychology, the “individual” and “social,” as well as their critiques of con- ventional laboratory methods, enabled them to propose what Pandora calls “experiential modernism”: the historically guided “search for scientiﬁc forms of knowing that would unsettle conventional ways of thinking without simultane- ously divorcing reason from feeling, and thus from the realm of moral sentiments” (p. 15).

Another attempt to alter mainstream social psychology is foundinKurtLewin’sendeavorstoreplacethediscipline’sin- dividualist orientation with the study of groups qua groups, to applygestaltprinciplesinsteadofthinkingintermsofdiscrete variables and linear causality, and to deploy experiments in- ductively (to illustrate a phenomenon) rather than to use them deductively (to test hypotheses) (Danziger, 1992, 2000). Other now largely forgotten innovations include J. F. Brown’s (1936; Minton, 1984) proposal for a more economically based and Lewinian social psychology, and Gustav Icheiser’s phenomenological theories along with his social psychology of the psychology experiment (Bayer & Strickland, 1990; Rudmin, Trimpop, Kryl, & Boski, 1987). By the time of the United States’entrance into World War II in 1941, social psy- chology had acquired both a nutrient-rich professional niche within psychology and a set of objective techniques for prob- ing individuals’ thoughts and actions when interacting with other individuals. While social psychology’s ability to gener- ate scientiﬁc knowledge still was regarded suspiciously by some psychologists, social psychologists nevertheless be- came actively involved in war-related research. They conﬁ- dently took the helm of government-sponsored studies of propaganda, labor, civilian morale, the effects of strategic bombing, and attitudes. The war work proved to have so strengthened social psychologists’solidarity that one partici- pant claimed, “The Second World War has brought maturity to social psychology” (Cartwright, quoted in Capshew, 1999, p. 127). After the war psychological experts were challenged to generate both relevant and convincingly objective research and form alliances with those in positions of power (Harris, 1998). However promising to the ﬁeld’s future, that organi- zational gain was achieved at the cost of damming up some of the ﬁeld’s investigative channels, narrowing further the ac- ceptable options for theory and methods alike. This scientiﬁc service experience also permeated the core conceptions of human kinds, and during the postwar years the conception of the individual–social world relation would evolve signiﬁ- cantly from the Progressive and interwar scenario of more or less mechanical actors needing adjustment to efforts to reﬁne the machinery of society.

231