## teachers (Koppes, 1997; Koppes, Landy, & Perkins, 1993; Perloff & Naman, 1996).

In 1919, H. E. Burtt joined the faculty at Ohio State University, and along with psychometric specialist H. Toops formed the ﬁrst doctoral specialization in industrial psy- chology after the one at Carnegie Institute of Technology (Katzell & Austin, 1992). In addition to Ohio State and Carnegie Tech, institutions that produced industrially ori- ented doctorates during the 1920s included the University of Minnesota and Stanford University. In 1930, Pennsylvania State College (now University) offered a doctorate in I-O psychology under B. V. Moore. Throughout the 1930s, addi- tional universities trained students who were oriented toward I-O careers, including Purdue University, Columbia Univer- sity, and New York University. Katzell and Austin (1992) noted that specialization in I-O psychology during these early years consisted mostly of a student’s choice of a principal mentor and associated research and dissertation topics.

Immediately after World War II, the number of specialized I-O training programs escalated, including the creation of terminal master’s programs. Existing programs, such as the one at Ohio State University, were expanded, and new pro- grams were created (George Washington University in 1948, University of Maryland in 1961, Michigan State University in 1951) (Katzell & Austin, 1992). Additional new doctoral programs were established during the 1960s, such as those at Bowling Green State University in 1965, North Carolina State University in 1966, and the University of Akron in 1968 (Katzell & Austin, 1992).

Programs in specialized I-O psychology and related ﬁelds have proliferated in the past 30 years, which indicates contin- ued progression in the discipline. The 1989 SIOP Graduate Training Programs in Industrial/Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior (Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology, Inc., 1989) lists 51 doctoral pro- grams and 36 master’s programs in psychology departments, and 46 doctoral programs and 8 master’s programs in busi- ness or related departments. The 1998 SIOP Graduate Train- ing Programs in Industrial-Organizational Psychology and Related Fields (Society for Industrial and Organizational Psy- chology, Inc., 1998a) lists 62 doctoral programs and 70 mas- ter’s programs in psychology departments, and 35 doctoral programs and 9 master’s degree programs in business and re- lated departments.

SIOP members have discussed several education and training issues, such as standards, accreditation, master’s education/training, postdoctoral training, internships, and continuing education for licensure. Programs in I-O psychol- ogy are not accredited; however, SIOP created competency- based guidelines according to a scientist-practitioner model. The documents are titled the Guidelines for Education and