---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c0aec86a5ccb5cec2d6e965d103a0d258667004d
title: untitled
---
# FORERUNNERS OF COMPARATIVE PSYCHOLOGY

The intellectual grounding for a comparative psychology was provided in the nineteenth century with the development of the theory of evolution. The notion that evolution had oc- curred did not originate with Charles Darwin but rather de- veloped with the work of such individuals as Erasmus Darwin (his grandfather), Jean-Baptiste Pierre Antoinne de Monet de Lamarck, and Robert Chambers. Darwin provided a viable mechanism, the theory of natural selection, and es- tablished that no mystical forces affected the direction of evolutionary change. Change is the result of differential re- production under prevailing circumstances. What was critical for comparative psychology was the solidiﬁcation of the idea that human and nonhuman animal behavior is continuous and thus both can be studied and compared with similar methods. This need not imply that there are no important differences between humans and nonhuman animals (henceforth called animals), but only that there are similarities and that any dif- ferences will best be revealed through careful comparisons. Although his Origin of Species (1859) and Descent of Man (1871) are Darwin’s best-known works, The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals (1872) was especially im- portant for comparative psychology because it showed how a comparative study of behavior might be conducted. Among Darwin’s many contributions to comparative psychology, we should remember that in the 1871 work Darwin laid out im- portant principles of sexual selection, the manner in which individual males and females ﬁnd mates and achieve repro- ductive success. Sexual selection has been an important topic in the ﬁeld of comparative psychology in recent years.

Darwin’s protégé was George John Romanes, an excellent scientist, who worked with jellyﬁsh, starﬁsh, and sea urchins (Romanes, 1885). He was also committed to demonstrating Darwin’s principle of continuity in instinct and mind in hu- mans and animals. In Animal Intelligence (1882), Romanes, like most of his contemporaries, relied heavily on anecdotes, reports of single instances of behavior provided by various

associates. Although he tried to be careful in selecting these, some of them are rather far-fetched and have led to a viliﬁca- tion of Romanes and his methods. His reputation was fur- ther tarnished because, in his efforts to establish continuity, he tended to anthropomorphize (i.e., attribute human proper- ties to animals). Romanes’s many contributions are often neglected.

A more conservative approach to animal behavior was taken by another Englishman, C. Lloyd Morgan, in his book An Introduction to Comparative Psychology (1894). Al- though this was a multifaceted work, Morgan is best remem- bered for one sentence, which has come to be known as Lloyd Morgan’s Canon:

In no case may we interpret an action as the outcome of the ex- ercise of a higher psychical faculty, if it can be interpreted as the outcome of the exercise of one which stands lower in the psy- chological scale. (p. 53)

Morgan clearly believed in a hierarchy of psychological processes, with some processes being higher, or more com- plex, than others. He suggested that we can only invoke the higher processes when behavior cannot be explained in terms of lower, or simpler, psychological processes. This principle is often confused with a related dictum, the law of parsimony (Dewsbury, 1984; Newbury, 1954). The terms “law of parsi- mony” and “Occam’s razor” can be used interchangeably for most purposes. These terms refer to the assumptions made in providing an explanation rather than to the complexity of the psychological processes that are invoked. Thus, other things being equal, we should strive for explanations that do not multiply explanatory principles and that are simple explana- tions in that sense. Morgan (1894), by contrast, noted that “the simplicity of an explanation is no necessary criterion of its truth” (p. 54). It would be possible to construct an inter- pretation based on lower psychological processes but that introduces numerous additional assumptions and is thus con- sistent with Morgan’s Canon but inconsistent with the law of parsimony or one that is parsimonious but in violation of the canon. The canon implies, for example, that we should be very careful in attributing consciousness to animals. By no means did Morgan wish to suggest that animals lack con- sciousness; rather, he meant that we could invoke such a process only when necessary to explain observations that could not be explained with psychologically lower complex processes.

Other investigations in the growing ﬁeld of animal behavior studies were conducted by such Britishers as Douglas A. Spalding, Sir John Lubbock, and L. T. Hobhouse and Americans such as Lewis Henry Morgan, T. Wesley
