---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 13bb01b3473a5c5609b5cdb1b91e3264bedd0821
title: untitled
---
# Comas and Convulsions

The ﬁrst extensive systematic use of treatments intended to induce convulsions and/or coma was reported by Manfred Sakel (1900–1957). While treating drug addicts in a Berlin sanitarium, Sakel accidentally gave an overdose of insulin to one patient who also had diabetes. The patient became comatose, but on recovery appeared to have lost her craving for drugs. Sakel began to apply insulin as a treatment for addiction. A later accidental overdose was given to a patient who was also psychotic. In this case, the patient’s psychosis appeared to be much reduced, inspiring Sakel to develop insulin coma treatment for schizophrenia. He reported that he had observed many successful outcomes but, as usual, no independent objective evaluation of the improvement was conducted (Sakel, 1935). This procedure became widespread until it was displaced by the use of the synthetic chemical metrazol.

In 1935, a Hungarian physician J. L. Von Meduna (1896–1964) reported that he had discerned subtle differ- ences in the brain cells of epilepsy and schizophrenia patients. He inferred that epilepsy and schizophrenia were antagonistic and that schizophrenia might be treated by in- ducing convulsions. On the basis of experiments with ani- mals, Meduna (1935) decided to use camphor injections but soon switched to metrazol and reported impressive improve- ments in his patients. By the 1940s, metrazol shock (convul- sion) therapy was widespread in the psychiatric hospitals of the United States. Some evidence indicated that metrazol was

effective with depressed patients, but not with schizophrenia patients, and it was ultimately replaced with electroconvul- sive treatment (ECT). In the case of both insulin coma and metrazol-shock the basic initial observations had been acci- dental; no accepted theory existed regarding the biological mechanisms that might account for the reported effects and little appears to have been attempted to develop one.

In 1937 two psychiatrists, Cerletti and Bini (1938), pre- sented an account of their use of ECT of sufﬁcient strength to produce convulsions and coma in psychiatric patients, some of whom showed an improvement in clarity of thinking and general reality contact. Although the procedure was applied rather widely to psychotic patients and especially schizophre- nia patients, the results were discouraging. Huston and Locher (1948), for example, found no difference in the rate of improvement in depressed patients treated with ECT com- pared with untreated patients. In addition, improvement in the untreated lasted longer than in the treated patients. Later studies of damage attributable to ECT (Alpers & Hughes, 1942) showed destructive effects to brain tissue. Again, no satisfactory theory accounted for the effects of the treatment. Gordon (1948) listed no fewer than 50 hypotheses, ranging from the belief that the patient had experienced the convul- sion as death and rebirth, to the view that the shock acted as a stressor and stimulated stress-resistance mechanisms in bod- ily functioning (Maher, 1966, pp. 499–500). Today, ECT is used sparingly and then mainly with certain kinds of affective disorder.
