---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d581ecead7228dcb66e4d4144baea74d0b8cb144
title: untitled
---
# Europe

In the ﬁrst decade of the twentieth century, psychologists in four European nations formed national associations: Great Britain and France (1901), Germany (1904), and Italy (1910). The Psychological Society, changed to the British Psychological Society in 1906, was formed in October 1901

by 10 psychologists who met at University College, London (Bunn, 2000). The French Psychological Society (SFP) was also founded in 1901. Its initial mission was to promote sci- entiﬁc research, but over the course of the twentieth century it has developed a greater emphasis on the practice of psychol- ogy. InGermany,psychologistsG.E. Mueller,OswaldKulpe, and Herman Ebbinghaus formed the Society of Experimental Psychology (SEP) in 1904; the name was later changed to German Society for Psychology (DGPs).As in other psycho- logical organizations formed in this period, the emphasis in the SEP was on scientiﬁc research. Much was lost during the Nazi period, with the result that organized psychology had to be completely rebuilt after World War II. Two German states were created in 1949: the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) and the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany). The DGPs continued as the primary national asso- ciation of academic psychologists in the latter and had approximately 1,800 members at the end of the twentieth cen- tury. In 1946, the Professional Association of German Psy- chologists was founded; its focus was (and is) the application of psychology outside the universities. Its membership at the beginning of the twenty-ﬁrst century was approximately 21,000. In the German Democratic Republic, a new profes- sional society was formed in 1962. The Society for Psychol- ogy (GfP) was mainly concerned with scientiﬁc psychology in adherence to Marxist-Leninist principles; it had approxi- mately 2,500 members at the time of German reuniﬁcation in 1990. The GfP dissolved at that time and its members were able to choose to afﬁliate with either the DGPs or the Profes- sional Association of German Psychologists (Dumont & Louw, 2001; Trommsdorf & Sprung; 2000). The Italian Psy- chological Society (SIPs) was formed in 1910 as a scientiﬁc society. During the twentieth century, other smaller societies, many devoted to professional practice or specialized research areas, joined the SIPs. It had eight specialty divisions and 20 regional sections at the end of the twentieth century.

Growth in other parts of Europe came more slowly, and only in Hungary (1928) and the Netherlands (1938) had national organizations formed before World War II began. The Swiss Psychological Society was formed during the war (1943). After the war, growth was more rapid. Denmark (1947), Poland (1948), Finland (1952), Spain (1952), Austria (1953), Iceland (1954), and Sweden (1955) formed national psychological societies in the ﬁrst decade after the end of the war.

Growth in the Soviet Union was slowed by governmental opposition to behavioral science from 1936 until 1955. Among the various republics of the Soviet Union, Georgia was the ﬁrst to allow psychologists to organize (1941), while Russia did not allow an association until 1957.
