# 12 Psychology as a Science

laboratories contradicted each other. Doubts about the capac- ity of introspection to serve as a scientiﬁc method were brought forcefully into focus by the “imageless thought” con- troversy. Titchener’s psychology proposed that images were the carrier of thoughts, and introspective observations carried out in his laboratory supported his position. Oswald Külpe and his colleagues at the University of Würzburg, however, failed to observe images in their studies of thought processes and concluded that thinking was carried out by “imageless thoughts.” How could introspection, as a method, reconcile incompatible results when conscious experience was private and not open to public inspection?

Supporters of introspection as the primary method of sci- entiﬁc psychology added more instructions in an attempt to improve the method (English, 1921) while others advocated its more limited use among other psychological methods (Angell, 1905; Dodge, 1912). The question of whether intro- spective analysis could indeed serve as a scientiﬁc method producing reliable data was present at the start of psychol- ogy’s history as a science. Introspective observations were reliable within limits: A wavelength of light at a given fre- quency was reported to evoke the same color sensation in all observers of normal vision. The question lay in the capability of introspection to go beyond such limited observations in the search for elements of mind. Meanwhile other research tradi- tions arose.