---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 99e1e96d1d6728af82d55cb109bf373be12bb18b
title: untitled
---
# The Clinical Psychologist

At the beginning of the twentieth century, psychopathology was the domain of psychiatry and, to a lesser extent, neurol- ogy. Psychiatry, arguably the oldest of the medical specialties (excluding surgery), originated with the superintendents of mental asylums at the end of the eighteenth century. After a half century of asylum management, the superintendents formed an organization entitled the Association of Medical Superintendents of American Institutions for the Insane in 1844 and in the same year began publication of their journal, The American Journal of Insanity. The organization’s name was later changed to the American Medico-Psychological Association in 1892 and in 1921 to the American Psychiatric Association; the journal name was changed as well in 1921 to the American Journal of Psychiatry (Grob, 1994). The abnormal mind was of interest to some, perhaps many, of the early psychologists, but the domains of diagnosis and treat- ment seemed clearly within the boundaries of medicine, and few psychologists saw any need to venture there. That would soon change.

Origins of any ﬁeld are rarely, if ever, unequivocal—and so it is with clinical psychology. We have already discussed the contributions of Lightner Witmer with respect to school and clinical psychology. Not only did he establish the ﬁrst psychology clinic in 1896, but as early as 1897 he had de- scribed a training program for psychologists to work in a ﬁeld that he had named “clinical psychology,” a ﬁeld that would draw from the knowledge base in medicine, education, and psychology (particularly child psychology). An expanded description of this ﬁeld and a rationale for its further devel- opment appeared in the inaugural issue of his journal, The Psychological Clinic (Witmer, 1907), a journal that largely published reports of the cases seen in Witmer’s clinic.

Witmer was clearly interested in the difﬁculties that chil- dren exhibited in the classroom and believed that psychologi- cal science could offer solutions to behavioral problems of perception, learning, motivation, and emotion. He champi- oned the need for accurate diagnosis based on psychological and medical tests (the latter were performed by associated physicians). Slowly others began to share his vision, and, by 1914, there were psychology clinics at 19 universities. Witmer’s focus was on children (and chieﬂy on problems that impeded learning). Others soon broadened the scope of clini- cal psychology. But, the duties of these early clinical psychol- ogists remained focused on diagnosis and recommendations

for treatment, with limited roles in actual treatment until after World War II.

Psychotherapy, a book published in 1909 by Hugo Münsterberg, represents an early psychology-based contri- bution to the clinical intervention literature. It was a non- Freudian textbook grounded in a theory of psychophysical parallelism, which argued that all psychical processes had a parallel brain process. His volume argued for the scientiﬁc study of the processes of psychotherapy and viewed psy- chotherapy as a clinical endeavor separate from “psychiatry.” Other inﬂuences came from physicians cognizant of the potential contributions of psychology. Morton Prince (1854–1929) was a neurologist interested in the problems of psychopathology and one who recognized the importance of psychology in the study and treatment of psychological dis- orders. His most famous book, The Dissociation of a Person- ality (1908), was a lengthy and insightful description of a case of multiple personality. His contributions to clinical psy- chology were considerable and include his founding of the Journal of Abnormal Psychology in 1906, which published the early work on experimental psychopathology, and his establishment of the Psychological Clinic at Harvard Univer- sity in 1926, which he housed in the Department of Philoso- phy (where psychology was located) rather than in Harvard’s medical school.

Another physician, William Healy (1869–1963), headed the Juvenile Psychopathic Institute, which opened in Chicago in 1909. Healy had studied with William James and had also been inﬂuenced by the work of Goddard at Vineland. His institute was to be both a research facility, investigating the causes of juvenile delinquency, and a treatment facility. He hired psychologist Grace Fernald (1879–1950) to work with him, and when she left, he replaced her with another psychol- ogist, Augusta Bronner (1881–1966), whom he would later marry. Both Fernald and Bronner used the title “clinical psy- chologist” and played important roles in research, diagnosis, and treatment. Other juvenile courts and corrections facilities began to hire psychologists for similar roles (Levine & Levine, 1992).

Other stimulants to the development of clinical psychol- ogy before World War I included the work on mental assess- ment by Goddard and other advances in mental testing; the ﬁve addresses given by Sigmund Freud (1856–1939) at Clark University in 1909 that fostered considerable interest in psy- choanalysis in America but more broadly in the nature of causation in mental illness; the mental hygiene movement begun around 1908 by former mental patient Clifford Beers (1876–1943) and psychiatrist Adolf Meyer (1866–1950), a movement that sought to understand the early causes of men- tal illness and how conditions might be changed (in families

and society) to minimize psychological problems; and the popularity of the Emmanuel Movement begun by a Wundt doctoral student, Elwood Worcester (1862–1940), in his Boston church, a movement that spread across the United States emphasizing the alliance of medicine and psychology in treating mental disorders, a movement credited with the emergence of psychotherapy in America (Caplan, 1998).

All of these forces brought psychology into greater contact with issues of mental pathology and afforded new jobs for psychologists, testers. As the demand for thesediagnosticservicesgrew,clinicalpsychologistspeti- tioned the APA in 1915 for a certiﬁcation program for quali- ﬁedpsychologistsinconsultingroles,ameasurethatwasseen to protect the public and to preserve the jobs of consulting psychologists. When the APA declined to provide such certi- ﬁcation, several psychologists, including J. E. Wallace Wallin (1876–1969) and Leta S. Hollingworth (1886–1939), formed in 1917 a new, short-lived organization entitled theAmerican Association of Clinical Psychologists (AACP), arguably the ﬁrst association of professional psychologists. The member- ship totaled only about 45 psychologists in its ﬁrst year, some in university settings, some in applied jobs. The association was a clear statement of another of psychology’s applied specialists coming of age: the clinical psychologist. (See the chapter by Routh and Reisman in this volume.)
