---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 1278b15be3b3a8834f017cebbf27beda123cc929
title: untitled
---
# The Early Scientiﬁc Period 121

ﬁrmly connected with the situation, so that, when it recurs, they will be more likely to recur; those which are accompanied or closely followed by discomfort to the animal will, other things being equal, have their connections with that situation weak- ened, so that, when it recurs, they will be less likely to occur. The greater the satisfaction or discomfort, the greater the strengthen- ing or weakening of the bond. (Thorndike, 1911, p. 244)

Thorndike seems here to state a truism not in need of sci- entiﬁc elaboration, that organisms learn how to get pleasur- able things and learn how to avoid painful things. However, questions surround the law of effect. Is reward necessary for learning? Reward and punishment surely affect behavior, but must they be present for learning to occur? What about a re- ward or punishment makes it change behavior? Is it the plea- sure and pain they bring, as Thorndike said, or the fact that they inform us that we have just done the right or wrong ac- tion? Are associations formed gradually or all at once?

Thorndike laid out the core of stimulus-response learning theory. It was developed by several generations of psycholo- gists, including E. R. Guthrie (1886–1959) and most notably by Clark Hull (1884–1952), his collaborator Kenneth Spence (1907–1967), and their legions of students and grand- students. Hull and Spence turned S-R theory into a formi- dably complex logico-mathematical structure capable of terrifying students, but they did not change anything essential in Thorndike’s ideas. Extensive debate took place on the questions listed above (and others). For example, Hull said reward was necessary for learning, that it operated by drive reduction, and that many trials were needed for an association to reach full strength. Guthrie, on the other hand, said that mere contiguity between S and R was sufﬁcient to form an as- sociation between them and that associative bonds reach full strength on a single trial. These theoretical issues, plus those raised by Tolman, drove the copious research of the Golden Age of Theory (Leahey, 2000; Leahey & Harris, 2001).

When S-R theorists turned to human behavior, they devel- oped the concept of mediation (Osgood, 1956). Humans, they conceded, had symbolic processes that animals lacked, and they proposed to handle them by invoking covert stimuli and responses.Mediationaltheorieswereoftenquitecomplex,but the basic idea was simple. A rat learning to distinguish a square-shapedstimulusfromatriangularonerespondsonlyto the physical properties of each stimulus. An adult human, on the other hand, will privately label each stimulus as “square” or “triangle,” and it is this mediating covert labeling response that controls the subject’s observable behavior. In this view, animals learned simple one-stage S-R connections, while hu- mans learned more sophisticated S-r-s-R connections (where s and r refer to the covert responses and the stimuli they
