# VISAS AND FLAGS

Another potential conﬂict was quietly resolved during the preparatory phase for the 1980 Congress in Leipzig. At the 1978 Congress of the International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP) in Munich, a member of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) Program Planning Committee informally asked one of the two APA representatives to IUP- syS about possible APA reactions, if, for unforeseen reasons, it should prove impossible at the last minute to grant visas to colleagues from a country with which the GDR did not then have diplomatic relations (meaning Israel). After consulta- tion with IUPsyS ofﬁcers, the GDR colleague was reminded that at the time of the 1966 Moscow Congress, the USSR, under similar circumstances, granted over 100 visas to psy- chologists from Franco Spain. Moreover, the IUPsyS consti- tution states speciﬁcally that a host country is obligated to grant visas to colleagues from all IUPsyS member associa- tions. Should visa problems prevent travel of some col- leagues, it could probably be expected that numerous U.S. psychologists would cancel their plans to come to Leipzig. It was hoped that this discussion of what was deemed a trial balloon would resolve the matter.

The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the January 1980 banishment of Nobel Prize–winning physicist and human rights advocate Andrei Sakharov resulted in a worsening of international tensions. The U.S. government threatened to boycott in Moscow and ordered a freeze on cultural and scientiﬁc exchanges with the Soviet Union. International protests were mounting. The APA Council was raising questions about U.S. participation in the Leipzig congress. The visa problem for Israeli psychologists had not been resolved. It was in this tense atmosphere that the APA asked its German-speaking IUPS representative, Henry P. David, to visit Berlin for personal consultation with the congress pres- ident and secretariat.

(and eventually did)