# Two Distinct Psychologies of Emotion 167

MacCurdy (1925) the discovery that emotional expressions appear when instinctive reactions are held up. Ogden hoped that his reintroduction of Paulhan to the psychological world would have the proper consequences of recognition and sci- entiﬁc advance. No such consequences have appeared. It is symptomatic of the history of the conﬂict theories that de- spite these complaints, neither Ogden nor Paulhan mention Herbart (1816), who said much the same sort of thing.

Paulhan’s major thesis was that whenever any affective events occur, we observe the same fact: the arrest of ten- dency. By arrested tendency Paulhan means a “more or less complicated reﬂex action which cannot terminate as it would if the organization of the phenomena were complete, if there were full harmony between the organism or its parts and their conditions of existence, if the system formed in the ﬁrst place by man, and afterwards by man and the external world, were perfect” (1930, p. 17). However, if that statement rehearses some older themes, Paulhan must be given credit for the fact that he did not conﬁne himself to the usual “negative” emo- tions but made a general case that even positive, pleasant, joyful, aesthetic emotions are the result of some arrested ten- dencies. And he also avoided the temptation to provide us with a taxonomy of emotions, noting, rather, that no two emotions are alike, that the particular emotional experience is a function of the particular tendency that is arrested and the conditions under which that “arrest” occurs.

The Paulhan-Ogden attempt to bring conﬂict theory to the center of psychology has an uncanny parallel in what we might call the Dewey-Angier reprise. In 1894 and 1895, John Dewey published two papers on his theory of emotion. In 1927, Angier published a paper in the Psychological Review that attempted to resurrect Dewey’s views. His comments on the effect of Dewey’s papers are worth quoting: “They fell ﬂat. I can ﬁnd no review, discussion, or even speciﬁc mention of them at the time or during the years immediately following in the two major journals” (Angier, 1927). Angier notes that commenthadbeenmadethatDewey’stheorywasignoredbe- causepeopledidnotunderstandit.Heanticipatedthatanother attempt, hopefully a more readable one, would bring Dewey’s conﬂict theory to the forefront of speculations about emotion. Alas,Angier was no more successful on behalf of Dewey than Ogden was in behalf of Paulhan. Dewey’s conﬂict theory, in Angier’s more accessible terms, was: Whenever a series of reactions required by an organism’s total “set” runs its course to the consummatory reaction, which will bring “satisfaction” by other reactions, there is no emotion. Emotion arises only when these other reactions (implicit or overt) are so irrelevant as to resist ready integration with those already in orderly progress toward fruition. Such resistance implies actual tensions, checking of impulses, interference, inhibition, or