## The Thoroughbred Years (1970–Present) 425

identiﬁed as “gatekeepers” for special education by virtue of their expertise with psychoeducational tests. Calls for change, even reform, of the school psychologists’ roles per- meated the Thoroughbred Years. In the early 1970s, the thrust was for school psychologists to become more system focused and to be child advocates within the system. This thrust was related to the general zeitgeist of the 1970s to “change the system,” whether it was the system of our schools, special education, school psychology, or government. It was a rebel- lious period in American history, and school psychology was no exception. The systems and organizational psychology approach to school psychology was popular (see e.g., Maher, Illback, & Zins, 1984), but the historical legacy of school psychology was reafﬁrmed in the service expectations re- quired by federal legislation for children suspected of being eligible for special education. In retrospect, this legislation and its reauthorizations, although creating thousands of new school psychology jobs, pitted the ﬁeld against itself: The longtime desire to expand roles and functions clashed with the need to provide mandated traditional services for job survival.

Local, state, and national surveys of how school psycholo- their time consistently revealed that half to gists spent two-thirds of their time was devoted to psychoeducational assessment related to eligibility for special education. These resultswereobservedevenduringaperiodofpubliceducation and school psychology reform in the last two decades of the century (Reschly, 1998). Comparisons are uncertain, but the psychoeducational assessment role during the Hybrid Years was probably more intense than recent studies have revealed. Nevertheless, it is clear that the assessment role dominated practice throughout the twentieth century. Of course, unifor- mity of practice was never observed. Evidence for consulta- tion, intervention, research and evaluation, and other roles has always been available. The Thoroughbred Years were fraught with literature, expert opinion, and organizational positions that did broaden the roles of school psychologists, even if not to the extent many desired. For its part, the assessment role was broadened through improved technical adequacy of nor- mative tests, an emphasis on criterion-referenced methods, nondiscriminatory practices, team approaches to service de- livery, and mandatory reevaluations.

The model of child study continued to evolve and broaden. Throughout the century, a gradual but persistent ex- pansion of the factors involved in referrals is discernible (Fagan, 1995). In addition to the long-standing focus on the child, assessment and intervention functions expanded in the Thoroughbred Years to more consistently include class- room and teacher variables, parental and family variables, and broader theoretical perspectives on traditional testing