# SUBSEQUENT PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

In 1918, Leta Hollingworth suggested the creation of a new doctoral degree, the PsyD, which could be awarded to psy- chologists who sought not to be scientists but practitioners of psychology (Hollingworth, 1918). A similar suggestion was made by Crane (1925–1926) with a similar imperceptible response. In 1947, a commission appointed by Harvard Uni- versity published a report recommending that Harvard estab- lish a PsyD program for clinical psychologists (University Commission to Advise on the Future of Psychology at Harvard, 1947). The report included the following statement, which proved to be somewhat prophetic and a bit comical: “If the best universities deliberately dodge the responsibility for training applied psychologists, the training will be attempted in proprietary schools but under conditions so deplorable that the universities will either be begged to assume responsibility or blamed for not doing so” (p. 33). However, by the time this report was published, the Harvard psychology department had already acted by spinning off a new Department of Social Relations, which included the psychology clinic and its staff and which continued to offer the PhD.

The ﬁrst institution to offer a PsyD degree was the Uni- versity of Illinois (Peterson, 1992). It began its PsyD program in 1968 as an alternative for clinical graduate students who might ﬁnd it more appealing than its PhD program. The PsyD program had a greater focus on training for practice and did not require experimental research; instead, the student could present a detailed case history or a documented attempt at clinical intervention and be prepared to discuss its theoretical, practical, and research implications. Eventually this program was dropped at Illinois and its leading proponent, Donald Pe- terson, went to Rutgers University to become dean of its Graduate School of Applied and Professional Psychology. (One of the illustrious PsyD graduates of the Rutgers pro- gram was Dorothy W. Cantor, president of the APA in 1996.) In the meantime, the California School of Professional Psychology opened its doors in 1969, offering a 6-year PhD program. Other universities, such as Baylor and Yeshiva, began to offer PsyD programs, and a number of proprietary schools of professional psychology were established, most of which offered the PsyD.

WhatseemedtospurthegrowthofPsyDprogramswasthe Vail Conference held in Colorado in 1973 (Korman, 1974). That conference endorsed the practitioner-training model as an alternative to the scientist-practitioner one. But of course