---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d32336153139720814706f51daf204c9bb7d66c8
title: untitled
---
# The Binet Scales

In 1904, the Minister of Public Instruction in Paris became concerned about the presence in public school classrooms of “mentally defective” children who could not beneﬁt from regular instruction. The Minister’s information indicated that these “subnormal” children were detracting from the quality of the education that elementary school teachers were able to provide their other students and required special educational programs tailored to “subnormal” children’s needs and capa- bilities. Acting on this information necessitated some method of identifying intellectually subnormal children, which led the Minister to appoint a commission charged with develop- ing such a method. Among those asked to serve on the com- mission was Alfred Binet (1875–1911), a distinguished experimental psychologist of the day well known for his interest in higher mental processes and his research on the na- ture of intelligence (Binet, 1903).

Binetacceptedappointmenttothiscommissionand,incol- laboration with physician colleague Theodore Simon (1873– 1961), designed a series of verbal and perceptual motor tasks for measuring whether students’mental abilities fell substan- tiallybelowexpectationfortheirage.TheBinet-Simoninstru- ment debuted in 1905 (Binet & Simon, 1905), was revised in 1908 to arrange these tasks according to mental age level, and was expanded in 1911 to include adult as well as childhood levels of expectation. Word spread rapidly concerning the utility of this new instrument, which was soon translated into several English versions. The most important of these translations emerged from an extensive revision and standard- ization project directed by Lewis Terman (1877–1956) at

StanfordUniversityandwaspublishedin1916astheStanford Revision and Extension of the Binet-Simon Intelligence Scale, soon to become known as the Stanford-Binet (Terman, 1916). Subsequent modiﬁcations and restandardization over the years produced several further versions of this measure, the most recent of which was published as the Fourth Edition Stanford-Binet in 1986 (Thorndike, Hagen, & Sattler, 1986). Central to the conceptual basis and empirical standardiza- tion of the Stanford-Binet is a focus on normative age-related expectations for performance on its component tasks, which makes it possible to translate successes and failures on these tasks into a mental-age equivalent. While Terman was collect- ing his standardization data, William Stern (1871–1938) ad- vanced the notion that a “mental quotient” could be calculated for respondents by dividing their chronological age by their mental age and multiplying the result by 100 (Stern, 1914). Terman endorsed this notion and included Stern’s calculation inthe1916Stanford-Binet.However,hedecidedtorenamethis numberan“intelligencequotient,”introducingthetermIQinto the language of psychology and into vocabularies worldwide.
