---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 44800a4e147e324d9b59d2d82f7fb69a7823dd63
title: untitled
---
# From Magnetism and Mesmerism to Hypnosis

The sixteenth century saw the development of magnetism, a theory and treatment of disease concurrent with, but outside that of traditional medicine. William Gilbert (1544–1603), English scientist and physician to the queen of England, dis- covered the physical force of magnetism. Gilbert’s discov- ery gave rise to the notion of a cosmic magnetic life force that permeates the universe and controls psychological and physiological functioning, and magnets gained popular- ity as a means of manipulating this force to cure physical and mental disease. During the eighteenth century this cos- mic force was redeﬁned as the force of gravity posited by Newton and was regarded as a vital principle of life. The practice of magnetism to treat disease, rationalized by Newton’s theory, became particularly popular in Germany and Austria. The notion relating magnetic force’s inﬂuence on the balance of bodily spirits received renewed emphasis with the popularity of Franz Anton Mesmer (1734–1815) whose theory of disease and its cure combined century-old notions from humoral theory with the idea of occult natural forces borrowed from Newtonian physics. Mesmer identi- ﬁed a “subtle and mobile ﬂuid” as the medium of the force of universal gravity and the primeval agent of nature. He de- scribed it as bathing the entire universe, surrounding and penetrating all bodies that exist and particularly exercised on the nervous system. All illness, physical and psychologi- cal, results from an imbalance of the ﬂuid’s distribution within the body. Certain privileged individuals are capa- ble of directing this ﬂuid in the bodies of sick people to re- store its balance. Mesmer established a medical practice in Vienna and began using magnets to treat disease in 1774, but soon discovered that he did not need magnets—he could produce the same effects by passing his hands downward over his patient’s body toward the feet, even at a distance. He concluded that he, himself, must have an accumulation of “animal magnetism” in his body that he could transmit to the patient.
