---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 847b39851527ff993636e347f3c14f4ec20435fa
title: untitled
---
# Tensions around Two Types of Prevention Research: Prevention Science and Action Research

Two contrasting approaches have emerged within the domain of prevention: prevention science and action research. The prevention scientist focuses on the technology of the inter- vention, precision of the measuring instruments, and the search to control confounding variables as much as possible so as to establish the validity of the intervention. In general, classical experimental research designs are employed. In this work, the focus is to generate testable hypotheses and rigor- ous quantitative analyses to be precise about the efﬁcacy of interventions. This approach is fundamentally concerned with the development of measurement techniques and statis- tical analyses, with an eye toward advancing knowledge for the professions and increasing the scientiﬁc status of pre- vention research among the social sciences.

Professional and scientiﬁc journals are replete with stud- ies conducted from the perspective of the prevention scien- tist. For example, a 1991 special issue of the AJCP presents a review of issues related to prevention science, including such topics as validity, short-term versus long-term effects, and the place of random assignment in community trials (Jansen & Johnson, 1993). Also in the AJCP (Kellam, Koretz, & Moscicki, 1999a, 1999b), recently published work from a conference on Prevention Science held at Johns Hopkins University in December 1994 includes: (1) results of school- and community-based randomized ﬁeld trials; (2) studies of antecedent risk factors in the individual and social context; and (3) designs for future prevention trials.

In contrast to the work of the prevention scientist, the action researcher focuses upon understanding the commu- nity, often the host for the prevention program, so as to develop community-based and community-sensitive pro- grams. Swampscott Conference participants recognized the need to use community members as resources in the research process. “The conference was stimulated by Reiff’s discus- sion of the indigenous nonprofessional,” and researchers

were beginning to see community members as “effective change agents” within their own neighborhoods (Bennett et al., 1966, p. 16). Community researchers envisioned com- munity members serving a double purpose. First, they would assist in promoting researchers’ credibility and help re- searchers maintain rapport with members of the community. Second, these indigenous nonprofessionals possessed skills that community researchers did not, including their intimate knowledge about their own community. Through their sub- jective analyses of their experiences, community members served as resources to their communities’health by providing researchers valuable information about the community, its needs, and its natural processes in efforts to develop contex- tually grounded interventions.

The action researcher may employ multiple methods of assessment, including both qualitative and quantitative techniques (K. Miller & Banyard, 1998). In general, this re- searcher attempts to deﬁne a closer relationship between pre- vention research and the communities where the prevention research is occurring (Kelly et al., 1988; Reason & Bradbury, 2001). Community-based action research places emphasis on collaborating with citizens to generate prevention services; the needs of the community are as equally salient as the sci- entiﬁc status of the research.

In recent years, community psychologists have consis- tently advocated for active community participation in pre- vention research, a trademark of action-oriented research (Muehrer, 1997; L. Smith, 1999). In his 1997 Sarason Award address, Murray Levine (1998) afﬁrmed that effective pre- ventive interventions should be “built on our understanding of the psychological sense of community” (p. 203), ideas expressed many years before by Seymour Sarason (Sarason, 1981, 1988). Similarly, Leonard Jason (1998) made a strong plea for collaboration with community organizations and cit- izens in his Distinguished Award address to the SCRA in 1997.

As community psychologists become more invested in working in communities, more attention is likely to be devoted to listening to the community rather then seeing communities primarily as places to test out scientiﬁc ideas (Seidman, Hughes, & Williams, 1993). For example, these community-centered approaches have been found to be es- sential in working in communities impacted by HIV/AIDS due to the culturally bound implications of preventive interventions (Icard, Schilling, El-Bassel, & Young, 1992; R. Miller, Klotz, & Eckholdt, 1998; Peterson, Coates, Catania, & Hauck, 1996). In the action research approach, the community psychologist is viewed as one resource among many contributors, in contrast to the prevention scientist who is viewed as the primary expert.
