---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 083b5f89dc8ee8df03b7668c01c1167a202bc302
title: untitled
---
# 196 Personality

In developing his list of personality variables, Murray made a deliberate analogy to organic chemistry (1938, p. 142). His list of motives and traits was seen as a limited number of elements capable of combining with each other and environmental press, producing an almost inﬁnite number of complex and unique individual personality-environment “compounds”—that is, individual lives. On the other hand, subsequent personality psychologists mostly conﬁned their attention to the short list of personality elements rather than the enormous variety of person-environment compounds. This would be analogous to chemists focusing only on the abstract characteristics of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, considered in isolation—appropriate for the early weeks of secondary school chemistry, perhaps, but hardly organic chemistry!

Taking Murray’s metaphor seriously would lead personal- itypsychologyinthedirectionofstudyingthesemanyandvar- iedindividuallives,justasorganicchemistsattendtothemany and varied emergent properties of an enormous number of or- ganic compounds. (As mentioned above, Murray actually in- troduced several concepts, such as need-integrate, regnancy, ordination, and gratuity, that could facilitate the study of personality-in-context in individual lives, but these concepts were never seriously developed and elaborated, either by Murray or by later generations of personality psychologists.) Asimilarperspectivehasemergedrecentlyfromthediscovery that human complexity is generated by a surprisingly small number of genes:

The key to complexity is not more genes, but more combinations and interactions generated by fewer units of code—and many of these interactions (as emergent properties, to use the technical jargon) must be explained at the level of their appearance, for they cannot be predicted from the separate underlying parts alone. So organisms must be explained as organisms, and not as a summation of genes. (Gould, 2001)

At the beginning of the twenty-ﬁrst century, then, we have come to recognize that personality involves complex interac- tions among elements and contexts in ways that, over time, are to some extent irreversible (or at least only reversible with greater difﬁculty than acquisition) and cannot be ade- quately described with simplistic, positivistic conceptions of science. We believe that these complexities—of personality and of psychological science—have energized a renewed interest in the individual lives approach to understanding per- sonality. At the same time, we believe that no one should un- derestimate the difﬁculty of studying lives with traditional and valuable standards of scientiﬁc objectivity and rigor—to develop, as Allport suggested, a true science of the single case. Perhaps in the next century, the ﬁeld will beneﬁt from the increased popularity and accessibility of chaos theory

(also called complexity theory) and its associated mathemat- ical concepts (e.g., Nowak & Vallacher, 1998) as alternatives to classical psychometric procedures and rules.

Finally, we suggest that to understand contexts and the way they shape the level and expression of personality di- mensions within individual lives will involve us in making acquaintance with and giving serious study to many other disciplines: for example, anthropology, sociology, gender studies, political science, history, economics, religion, even architecture and geography. To do justice to the whole range of human experience, we believe, the study of individual lives in personality psychology must become again, as it originally was, an interdisciplinary endeavor.
