# Conﬂuence of Dynamic Forces

do, and vice versa. (Paul W. Thayer, personal communication, June 5, 2000)

After World War II, the economic and political division of the world along capitalistic-communist lines, the emergence of the Soviet Union as a superpower, and the threat of nuclear war increased military spending (Dipboye et al., 1994). Psy- chological research beneﬁted from this spending as the mili- tary sought behavioral means to improve the effectiveness of the armed forces. Several research centers were created, such as theArmy Research Institute (ARI), the Navy Personnel Re- search and Development Center (NPRDC), and theAir Force Human Resources Laboratory (AFHRL). Although military spending on research has decreased in the past 20 years, some projects prevailed. For example, J. P. Campbell (1990) de- scribed ProjectA, a large-scale project for the U.S.Army.This effort involved several psychologists over a 10-year period to research the selection and classiﬁcation of military personnel and develop the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB).Another example of military research is the exten- sive investigation of teams completed by the U.S. Navy’s Training Systems Center (e.g., Swezey & Salas, 1992).

One outcome of the wars that indirectly inﬂuenced I-O psychology was the creation of the G.I. bill (e.g., Haydock, 1996). This bill allowed funded military personnel to attend college, increasing the number of students entering graduate programs. At 92 years of age, APA Division 14 (now SIOP) past president (1957–1958) Charles H. Lawshe Jr. recalled,

Tifﬁn’s book . . . was adopted by the U.S.A.F.I. (Armed Forces Institute) in a correspondence course for G.I.’s and was sent to them all over the world. With the cessation of hostilities these G.I.’s, now familiar with the book and with pockets full of cash applied for admission to graduate schools in drones. [sic] Purdue alone admitted 23 or 24 each year. . . . The result, a tremendous inﬂux of many, many very bright students, all who eventually became available to be hired by industry. While it is no longer true, it seemed that almost every industry had its own “in house” industrial psychologist. (Charles H. Lawshe, Jr., personal com- munication, June 1, 2000)

The signiﬁcant impact of the two world wars and the military on the development of I-O psychology has been documented (e.g., Britt & Morgan, 1946; Ferguson, 1962–1965; von Mayrhauser, 1989). The impact of other wars (e.g., Korea, Vietnam, the Gulf War) and military efforts on I-O psychol- ogy needs investigation.