# 320 Abnormal Psychology

body was preserved by the thesis that madness results when pathological functioning of the nervous system deceives the mind of the patient, interfering with the exercise of his reason and thus his moral liberty. The exercise of free will and ratio- nality of the mind is possible only in a healthy body, the body (speciﬁcally the nervous system) being the instrument of the mind. The sane person possesses rationality and free will; the insane patient lacks both as a result of a diseased body.

Not all proponents of the hereditary degeneracy theory were clear about what exactly began the process of degen- eration. A signiﬁcant body of opinion held that the problem lay in the unhealthy nature of city life. The steady movement of rural dwellers into the large cities had exacerbated the already intense overcrowding in city slums. Low standards of nutrition, difﬁculties in maintaining cleanliness, poor or nonexistent sanitation, promiscuity, heavy drinking, and crime were endemic in the warrens of London, New York, and the large cities of Europe. Many argued that all this weak- ened the constitution and morals of the previously healthy countryman, and that this acquired debility was somehow transmitted by hereditary to offspring, getting more intense with each succeeding generation.

During the second half of the nineteenth century, promi- nent French psychiatrists such as Morel and Moreau not only endorsed the belief that insanity was caused by hereditary transmission of a predisposition to nervous system pathol- ogy, but further proposed that this degeneracy, endemic among the lower classes, was the cause of political unrest in those strata. An ideal multipurpose theory that could account for phenomena as diverse as psychopathology and social unrest, degeneracy theory would form a central plank in the eugenic and racist platform.

In Germany, Darwinian ideas found a reception so enthu- siastic that it rapidly transformed into an all-encompassing, mystical quasi-religious system of belief. The German biolo- gist, Ernst Haeckel, a leading proponent of this movement, proposed that forces in nature were moving always to the im- provement of the species, affecting man in precisely the same way as any other animal. It was the moral duty of the people to further nature’s purposes and to take active steps to prevent the decay of degeneracy. This notion of a moral imperative to further the alleged purposes of nature would appear in the de- velopment and spread of eugenic ideas in Europe and North America, culminating in the murder of thousands of mentally ill in the gas chambers of Nazi Germany (Düfﬂer, 1996).