# 100 Sensation and Perception

when Oppel’s papers appeared, and 1900, over 200 papers demonstrating and analyzing various visual distortions ap- peared. New illusion conﬁgurations began to appear in a vast unsystematic ﬂood. There were new distortions described by the astronomer Johann Karl Friedrich Zöllner (1834–1882), the sociologist Franz Müller-Lyer (1857–1916), the physiolo- gist Jacques Loeb (1859–1924), and the philosopher- psychologist Franz Brentano (1838–1917). Many psycholo- gists whose main interests seem to lie far from perception also took their turn at producing illusion conﬁgurations. Included in this group are Charles Hubbard Judd (1873–1946) and Alfred Binet (1857–1911), both interested in education and child development; the philosophically oriented James Mark Baldwin (1861–1934) and William James (1842–1910); the clinician Joseph Jastrow (1863–1944); the founder of applied psychology, Hugo Münsterberg (1863–1916); as well as a host of workers interested in aesthetics, including Karl Stumpf (1848–1936) and Theodor Lipps (1851–1914). This is not to say that specialists in perception were excluded, since many of these joined this merry frenzy of exposing instances of noncorrespondence, including Wundt, Hering, Helmholtz, Titchener, and Ehrenfels, to name but a few.

It is difﬁcult to believe, but it was in the midst of all of this activity of drawing lines on paper to produce illusory per- cepts that the science of psychology was born. Wilhelm Wundt (1832–1920) was probably the ﬁrst person to call himself a psychologist and was certainly the ﬁrst to found a formal administrative unit for psychological research. Oddly enough he embarked upon the development of exclusively psychological research because of all those line drawings that showed systematic distortions when carefully viewed. Wundt began by considering visual illusions as they were currently being described in his book Contributions to the Theory of Sensory Perception, various sections of which were pub- lished between 1858 and 1862. By the time he published his Principles of Physiological Psychology (in two parts, 1873 and 1874), his deliberations had forced him into a new philo- sophical and methodological position. For example, when he considered Oppel’s strongest illusion, which demonstrated the fact that a vertical line looks longer than a horizontal line of equal length (as we saw in Figure 5.2C), he recognized thatthisperceivedillusioncouldnotbepredictedbyanyofthe known laws of physics, biology, or chemistry. To explain this phenomenon, then, we would need a new set of laws. These laws would be the laws that govern mental science. He sug- gested that we need a science of mental processes and we could name it “Psychology,” as had been suggested earlier by the philosopher and mathematician Christian von Freiherr Wolff (1679–1754). Although he credited Wolff with the name, Wundt chose to ignore the fact that Wolff also

maintained that any science of mental life could not be based upon empirical research. Instead Wundt set out to create a new empirical science with its own methods and its own basic principles to study issues such as the noncorrespon- dence between the physical and the perceived world.

When Wundt ﬁrst began his research, he had already ac- cepted the concept that psychology should use a variety of experimental methods depending on the question being asked. One such technique was analytic introspection. Wundt initially adopted the atomistic viewpoint, which earlier in the century had proved to be so successful in physics, biology, and chemistry. It seemed reasonable to assume that con- sciousness could be viewed as the sum of some form of basic mental elements, much as physicists had come to view matter as the combination of basic elements called atoms and biolo- gists had come to view living organisms as the combination of basic units called cells. Wundt’s structuralist viewpoint ar- gued that the total perceptual impression must similarly be composed of the sum of simple sensory impressions. Ana- lytic introspection was one way of training observers to iso- late these simple sensory impressions in consciousness and thus reveal the irreducible elements of conscious perception. There is a misperception about Wundt’s methodology that was perpetrated by his student Edward Bradford Titchener (1867–1927). The fallacy is that analytic introspection was the main, and perhaps the only, technique of choice in Wundt’s lab. This is not true, since Wundt advocated many methods, including observation without intervention, experi- mentation, and the use of objective indexes of mental processes such as discriminative responses to sensory stimuli and reaction time. Furthermore, well before his long career was through, the same stimulus conﬁgurations that brought him to consider psychology as a separate discipline would cause him to abandon analytic introspection.

If analytic introspection worked, then the observer should be able to reduce consciousness to basic sensory elements. If this is the case, then it seems reasonable to assume that visual illusion stimuli, when dealt with in this manner, would no longer produce any perceptual distortion. Thus, analytically viewing the items in Figure 5.2 should produce accurate as- sessments of all relevant sizes and lengths, and the illusions themselves should turn out to be nothing more than judg- mental errors added to the basic sensory elements by not-so- careful observers. Unfortunately, such was not the case, and the illusions persisted, suggesting to Wundt that perhaps the atomistic view was untenable and the technique of analytic introspection might not be as useful as originally thought. Instead, he began to argue for a much more modern-sounding view of perception, which he called creative synthesis. According to this view, perception might be considered to be

an amalgam between sensory and nonsensory elements. These nonsensory elements might arise through memories or associations established by an individual’s experience or history, or information from other modalities. Thus, in Fig- ure 5.2A, the eye might be expending more energy moving over the upper divided space (since it might be stopping and starting as it moved over the included elements). Since the movement of the eye over longer extents also normally re- quires more effort, it may be that the proprioception from this additional effort might interact with the visual impression to produce the perception of a longer extent. Such an idea (that is, the interaction of sensory factors with information from other modalities or nonsensory sources) would ﬁnd ready ac- ceptance with many current cognitive theories that attempt to integrate multimodal inputs as well as memory and reasoning processes into the perceptual act (c.f., Coren, 1986).