## Formalization as a Field of Inquiry and Practice 453

Helen Flanders Dunbar, a follower of Meyer, promoted the idea that psychosomatic symptoms were associated with certain personality types and not just with a single conﬂict, as Freud had postulated. She believed that all illnesses were psychosomatic and worked diligently to facilitate acceptance of that view among physicians and the general public. Her views were popularized through her 1935 book, Emotions and Bodily Changes, and she became the founding editor of a new journal, Psychosomatic Medicine, at a time when men dominated American medicine. The preface to the ﬁrst issue (1939) declared its devotion to the study of the interrelation- ships between psychological and physiological aspects of all normal and abnormal bodily functions and the integration of somatic therapy and psychotherapy. It is interesting to note that Dunbar intended to advance psychosomatic medicine not as a new specialty within medicine but rather as a way of educating medical professionals and scientists to view illness as multidimensional, a perspective that can be considered a precursor to the later systems models (Lipsitt, 1999).

In 1942, a group of researchers, including psychiatrists, physiologists, internists, psychologists, and psychoanalysts, founded the American Psychosomatic Society (APS). A neu- rologist, Tracy Putnam, was its ﬁrst president. Levenson (1994) describes these early members as adventurers and ex- perimenters who were interested in exploring the mind–body riddle. She notes that psychiatry was not yet well accepted in the male-dominated medical schools or teaching hospitals, and at a time when American education and medicine was anti-Semitic, the APS welcomed refugees ﬂeeing Nazi Germany. Yet the psychosomatic medicine movement did not promote any political or feminist agenda, nor was it bound to any one theory, as members held widely different points of view (e.g., Pavlovians, Freudians). Some members were interested in speciﬁc diseases, others in the connections be- tween emotions and bodily processes. Afew researchers were interested in topics such as overutilization of health care ser- vices, but much work consisted of pathology-oriented treat- ment reports of the “classic” psychosomatic disorders.

Psychodynamic theory as a framework continues to dominate psychosomatic medicine in Europe, especially in southern European countries. Historically, both psychiatrists and psychologists have contributed to its expansion. Some of these were European psychoanalysts who immigrated to the United States to ﬂee Nazi persecution, such as Franz Alexander. In Chicago, Alexander built upon Freud’s formu- lation of conversion hysteria to derive the speciﬁcity theory of psychosomatic disease. From his clinical observation of patients undergoing psychoanalysis, he concluded that spe- ciﬁc emotional conﬂicts, called nuclear conﬂicts, were asso- ciated with speciﬁc physical diseases such as peptic ulcer,