data/clean/untitled__chunk1119.md, before:

## Context and Complexity in Personality Psychology

Some psychologists have recognized, at least in principle, the importance of context in the expression of personality. Kurt Lewin (1935) long ago articulated the principle that behavior is a joint function of the personality (P) and the environment (E); in formulaic terms: B (cid:2) f(P, E). This principle is often expressed by including a person-situation interaction term in an ANOVA or regression. However, Lewin’s simple formula and these interaction terms are really little more than program- matic methodological aspirations or statements of faith; as they stand, they are of little use in the full analysis of complex person-environment transactions in the real world. From our perspective, Lewin’s formula is misleadingly simple: Person- ality itself is also a function of complex and differentiated en- vironments, past and present, as well as immediate situations. For example, might Jenny’s personality have been different if she had been more ﬁnancially secure (M. B. Allport, 1965)? Atkinson (1957) developed a model for relating motiva- tion and behavior by considering the effects of context- related variables such as expectancy and incentive as they interacted with approach and avoidance motives. While the model was usefully applied to the analysis of certain situa- tions, mostly involving the achievement motive (Atkinson & Feather, 1966; McClelland, 1985; McClelland & Winter, 1969, pp. 15–19), it, too, remained a largely programmatic model.

195

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk1119.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 900afdbed049f084164083159789f1da26d9c0ef
title: untitled
---
## Reassessing the History of Ambivalence toward the Study of Individual Lives

maintain that they are practicing science, and many would argue for the possibility of (in Allport’s words) “a science treating individuals” (G. W. Allport, 1937b, p. 21). And in fact, some of the critics of mainstream personality psychol- ogy are really friendly critics, trying to improve the true sci- entiﬁc credentials by taking account of these alternative perspectives (see, e.g., Stewart, 1993, on how feminist theo- ries can improve personality research).

Thus, personality psychology is not immune to intellec- tual trends and fashions (albeit perhaps somewhat sluggish and belated in its responsiveness). Currently, approaches that involve narrative and other qualitative methods, as reﬂected in the existence and importance of the Handbook of Qualita- tive Research (Denzin & Lincoln, 2000), are enjoying rela- tively high prestige in the academic community, particularly in many social science ﬁelds. (For example, sociology has seen a revival of interest in case studies and personal docu- ments; see Platt, 1992, 1996; Plummer, 1983.) Thus, it is only natural that such trends should give impetus to a renewed focus on the individual lives approach (e.g., McAdams, Josselson, & Lieblich, 2001), particularly when they can be combined with quantitative methods (see, e.g., J. M. Healy & Stewart, 1991).

and conscientiousness across the two situations. And within each situation, we could recognize differences between peo- ple who were high versus low in power motivation, conscien- tiousness, and so forth.

When we consider the many different features of people’s social contexts, each interacting with all the others, it is im- mediately apparent that taken together, they transform and channel the expression of nomothetic “standardized” person- ality variables in an indeﬁnitely large number of ways. (Of course, the different personality variables interact with and thereby transform each other, as well.) As a result, the con- cepts of “personality variables” and even “personality” are most appropriately understood not as autonomous, free- ﬂoating entities located “within” people but rather as “bun- dles” of potentialities, expressed in many and varied (but still recognizable) ways in combination with features of the social micro- and macrocontexts. The study and assessment of per- sonality, then, become the much broader study and assess- ment of personality-in-contexts; this, in turn, means the study and assessment of individual lives. In other words, recogni- tion of the importance of social context facilitates recognition of the value of the individual lives approach.

Importance of Social Context. Aﬁnal reason for the re- newed interest in the individual lives approach to personality is a recognition of the importance of people’s social contexts in shaping and channeling their personality characteristics and dynamics. Psychologists have long recognized the pow- erful effects of immediate situations or microcontexts; for example, things that can be manipulated in laboratory exper- iments. Even more striking in their effects, however, are macrocontexts, or enduring features of social structure and culture—gender, age, social class, culture, and history. For example, consider such personality variables as power moti- vation, optimistic explanatory style, extraversion, and consci- entiousness. Each is clearly deﬁned. Each has considerable construct validity, which means that it is associated with a recognized and characteristic set of observable behaviors.Yet imagine how differently each would have been expressed on the morning of June 6, 1944, by the following two people, in the following two situations: (1) a white 20-year-old American man storming Utah Beach during the World War II invasion of Normandy in France, and (2) a middle-aged Japanese American woman in an internment camp set up in the Utah desert at the beginning of the war by the U.S. gov- ernment for citizens and residents of Japanese ancestry. Tak- ing account of the enormous context differences, we could probably recognize abstract similarities in the expression of power motivation, optimistic explanatory style, extraversion,
