---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 65d7a9d9981eca1ddfc0b751f9698c73ea59f472
title: untitled
---
# 280 Assessment Psychology

gradually began to address individual differences. Scientiﬁc attention to individual differences was inspired by Charles Darwin (1859), who in The Origin of Species encouraged systematic study of how varying characteristics between species and within members of species could inﬂuence which of them survive and prosper. Intrigued by these notions of evolution and heredity, and interested particularly in the origins of human genius, Sir Francis Galton (1869, 1883) proposed that differences between people in their intellectual ability could be measured by their performance on sensory- motor tasks like reaction time, grip strength, weight discrim- ination, and visual acuity. Galton established a laboratory in London to study psychophysical variations in performance, and his creativity and initiative in this work led to the emer- gence of scientiﬁc study of human capacities. With good reason, Boring (1950, p. 487) in his History of Experimental Psychology credited Galton as being the founder of individ- ual psychology.

Subsequent progression from individual psychology to as- sessment psychology came with the contribution of James McKeen Cattell (1860–1944), who as a graduate student in 1883 presented himself at Wilhelm Wundt’s laboratory in Leipzig and asked to be taken on as an assistant. The found- ing of Wundt’s laboratory in 1879 marks the inception of psychology as a scientiﬁc discipline, and Wundt’s goals as a scientiﬁc psychologist were to formulate universal principles of behavior that would account for response patterns com- mon to all people. Like other behavioral scientists past and present operating with this nomothetic perspective, Wundt had little afﬁnity for measuring differences among people, which he regarded as a troublesome error variance. Fortu- nately for assessment psychology, he nevertheless allowed Cattell to conduct dissertation research on individual varia- tions in reaction time. Returning home after completing his doctorate in Leipzig, Cattell sought to extend the methods of Galton, whose laboratory he had visited brieﬂy while lectur- ing at Cambridge in 1888. He did so with enormous energy and success while serving as head of the Psychology Labora- tory at Columbia University from 1891 to 1917. Cattell (1890) introduced the term mental test to the psychological literature, and, during a long career that included serving as the fourth president of the American Psychological Associa- tion (APA), he pioneered mental testing and generated scien- tiﬁc interest in psychological tests. More than anyone else, Cattell deserves the title “father” of assessment psychology. In the twentieth-century wake of Cattell’s generativity, the formal pursuit of methods of identifying similarities and dif- ferences among people was more often than not stirred by some practical purpose needing to be served. Assessment consequently developed as an applied rather than a basic ﬁeld

in psychology. Its theoretical underpinnings and the exten- sive research it has generated not withstanding, assessment psychology has been taught, learned, and practiced mainly as a means of facilitating decisions based in part on the needs, desires, capacities, and behavioral tendencies observed in persons being assessed.
