# 88 Sensation and Perception

knowledge of the senses and perceptual processes. The mind is simply a tabula rasa, a blank tablet or white paper, and sen- sory processes write on that paper. Thus, his view was that perceptual experiences create everything that we know or conceive of. Jean Piaget (1896–1980) would bring this same concept into the twentieth century when, in his 1969 book Mechanisms of Perception, he considered the hypothesis that there is no difference between perception and intelligence. Some attempts at compromise between these two extreme positions would be attempted. Perhaps one of the earliest came from Aristotle (384–322 B.C.). He began by arguing that there are some perceptual qualities that are immediately and accurately perceived by the senses. He noted that “Each sense has one kind of object which it discerns and never errs in reporting what is before it is color or sound (although it may err as to what it is that is colored or where it is, or what it is that is sounding or where it is).” There are, however, other qualities, such as movement, number, ﬁgural qualities, and magnitude, that are not the exclusive property of any one sense but are common to all. These qualities, according to Aristotelian doctrine, require intellectual meditation to assure accuracy of representation.

This compromise view would eventually lead to the sepa- ration of perceptual research into two domains, namely sensation and perception. Thomas Reid (1710–1796) is gen- erally credited with making this distinction. A sensation is triggered by some impression on a sense organ that causes a change in experience. Thus, “I have a pain” is a statement that implies a sensation. It can have qualities such as a dull pain, burning pain, or sharp pain, and these are also indicative of a sensation. Perception, however, while depending on a sensation, is much more. It includes a conception of an object or a relationship that is being perceived, plus the immediate and irresistible conviction of the existence of objects or a spa- tial organization. Thus, “I have a pain in my toe because I stepped on a tack,” represents a percept and requires inter- vention of mind or reason.

Reid’s dichotomy is still with us and is the accepted com- promise view (even the title of this chapter is evidence of that); however, modern usage has introduced a bit of a con- ceptual drift. Hermann von Helmholtz (1821–1894), who left his mark on much of the theoretical foundation of the disci- pline, began to introduce the mechanism by which a sensa- tion became a perception. Although much of his contribution to our understanding had to do with the physiological basis of sensory experience, he felt that something more was required to actually produce our perception of the world. In what may be the book that had the greatest impact of any ever written on vision, the Treatise on Physiological Optics (published in three separate volumes during the 1850s and 1860s), he pro-

posed a process that he called unconscious inference. This is a mechanism by which individuals “derive” the objects in the environment using inferences made on the basis of their ex- perience. Thus, perception is like problem solving, where the data used is the rather inadequate information furnished by the senses. Since most people share a common culture and environment, there will be a good level of agreement on the nature of objects and relationships in the world. Individual differences in personal histories, however, can potentially lead to quite different percepts among different people given the same stimulation. At the very minimum, the introduction of the factor of experience in shaping the ﬁnal percept means that perception will have a developmental aspect and will certainly differ as a function of the age of the individual.

Helmholtz’s view has a modern ring and uses terminology that psychologists are still comfortable with today. The gen- eral concept of an inductive process that shapes perception actually had a precursor in the writings of the ecclesiastic scholar St. Thomas Aquinas (1225–1274). In Aquinas’s view all human knowledge is based upon the input of the senses. This sensory information, however, is believed to be the re- sult of a simple transfer of an accurate picture of the external reality to an internal representation. However, this sensory input does not enter an empty, passive intellect. Rather, the sensory information is acted on by a second element, the sen- sus communis, or the center of common sense, which in- cludes information from the individual’s life history. This part of the mind actively organizes, mediates, and coordi- nates the sensory input. Thus, the senses provide an accurate picture of the world, and the higher perceptual or rational processes provide meaning, thus converting raw sensation into perceptual knowledge.

The sensation–perception distinction would undergo at least one more major transition. The stimulus would come from Adelbert Ames Jr. during the 1940s and 1950s, who, much like Helmholtz, began with interests in sensory physi- ology but felt that more was required. Ames refused to accept the basic postulate of Aquinas, that the sensory input is an ac- curate representation of the external world. He felt that the correspondence problem was much larger than previously suggested. The example he began with was the observation that the retinal image is inherently ambiguous. A square pat- tern of light on the retina could be caused by any of an inﬁnite number of different squares at an inﬁnite and indeterminate number of distances, and the same square image could be caused by one of an inﬁnite number of squares of different sizes depending on their distance. This simple square image on the retina could also be caused by an inﬁnite number of nonsquare objects, including an inﬁnity of quadrilateral ﬁg- ures such as tilted trapezoids. Thus, shape, size, and distance,

which are the basic elements we need to construct our con- scious image of the external reality in visual perception, are not encoded in the sensory data in any manner readily acces- sible by the individual. How, then, do we construct our co- herent perception out of our ambiguous sensory information? According to Ames, we do this by inference based on our ex- perience and any other information that happens to be avail- able. In other words, perception is our “best guess” as to what is out there. This is an update on Helmholtz’s view that “such objects are always imagined as being present in the ﬁeld of vision as would have to be there in order to produce the same impression on the nervous system, the eyes being used under normal conditions.”

What Ames did was to demonstrate how much experien- tial and nonsensory information goes into our ﬁnal conscious perception. We have some basic concepts such as our pre- sumption that rooms are square or that shadows provide in- formation about shapes. Since our hypotheses about common object shapes and sizes and certain ideas about possible and impossible objects and conditions are built up by our history of transactions with the environment, this viewpoint came to be known as transactional psychology. Our perceptions al- ways conform to our presumptions about the world, and we will distort our conscious picture of reality to ﬁt those pre- sumptions. Fortunately, most of our presumptions, since they are based upon experience, are accurate; hence, we are not generally bothered by failures in correspondence. However, situations can be set up that show perceptual distortions based on this inferential process. One such is Ames’s well-known trapezoidal room, where to conform with our ﬁrmly believed notions that rooms are squared with vertical walls and hori- zontal ﬂoors and ceilings, we distort the size of people viewed in this oddly shaped room. This is the better perceptual guess, since people can come in all sizes while room construction is fairly standard. This clearly demonstrates an inferential and nonsensory contribution to conscious perception.

The Ames and Helmholtz viewpoints would evolve into the “New Look” theories of perception (which permitted a broader spectrum of experiential and inferential contribu- tions), then into information-processing theories (which fo- cused on the deductive and analytic mechanisms used to form the percept), and ﬁnally to the modern conception of cogni- tion. The name cognition, as used to label a very active ﬁeld of inquiry in contemporary psychology, is itself quite old. It was ﬁrst used by St. Thomas Aquinas when he divided the study of behavior into two broad divisions, cognition, mean- ing how we know the world, and affect, which was meant to encompass feelings and emotions. Today’s deﬁnition of cog- nition is equally as broad as that of Aquinas. Although many investigators use the term to refer to memory, association,