## THE TREND FROM AMERICANIZATION TO INTERNATIONALIZATION

In discussions with colleagues in diverse parts of the world, the complaint was often voiced that, particularly since the end of World War II, psychology has been “Americanized,” a term described by Graumann (1997) as a “critical polemic catch-word to designate the expansion of the American way of life” into other cultures (p. 265). Van Strien (1997) de- scribed Americanization as a form of “scientiﬁc coloniza- tion,” meaning intellectual domination of an existing culture by a foreign, more powerful one. Van Strien did not mean to imply an enforced suppression of an older culture but a more voluntary submission to a dominant culture, a kind of “colo- nial pact,” a term ascribed to Moscovici.

Graumann (1997) reviews what he believes “American” means for U.S. psychologists. He cites Cattell’s recollection that when he presented Wundt with his proposal to study “the objective measurement of the time of reactions with special reference to individual differences,” Wundt commented that it was “ganz Amerikanisch” (“typically American”). In his view, only psychologists could be the subjects in psychological experiments. Graumann cites other examples, noting Koch’s (1985) account of what he calls “psychology’s American naturalization,” meaning “despite its European origins, psychology acquired the attributes of an almost uniquely American enterprise.” Graumann (1997) notes that the “early generations of Wundt-trained American psy- chologists” after their return to the United States turned to “applied and commercial interests.” Cattell, Judd, Hall, Witmer, and many others were all soon engaged in commer- cializing psychology in one form or another. Graumann (1997) sums up that “when Americans speak of American psychology, they usually refer to features characteristic of American culture that is seen in contrast to its European origins” (p. 267).

There is ample evidence that following the emigration of many leading psychologists from Hitler’s Germany and Austria in the 1930s, the center of gravity in psychology shifted from Europe to the United States. Triandis (1980) has

516