---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b58e5d1db0dcb1d3e10678b7b2cf788aa487b6d6
title: untitled
---
# Industrial-Organizational Psychology

employees’ personal problems (Highhouse, 1999). A re- newed interest in worker adjustment, work–family conﬂicts, and other personal issues (e.g., mental health) has emerged in the past decade (e.g., Zedeck, 1992).

After World War II, the economy provided for prosperity, leisure, pleasure, afﬂuence, education, and a heightened awareness of the good life. A new generation of American workers increasingly valued noneconomic outcomes and per- sonal rewards (satisfaction, personal growth, self-fulﬁllment, actualization, self-expression) instead of traditional bread- and-butter rewards (Katzell, 1958). An increased emphasis on workers’attitudes and motivations and ways of improving life in organizations became salient, with particular attention to social and organizational contexts. The focus shifted to topics other than those directly tied to bottom-line perfor- mance, including the effects of work on individuals, motiva- tion, job attitudes, life and job satisfaction, challenges of the job, and job characteristics (Katzell & Austin, 1992).

The postwar economy provided for an explosion of psy- chological applications and research opportunities. The focus was on both ﬁtting people for the job and ﬁtting the job for people. Military research centers were formed, psychological research organizations were created (e.g., American Insti- tutes for Research), consulting ﬁrms were established (e.g., Richardson, Bellows, Henry, & Company), and research groups were formed within private companies (e.g., General Electric, Standard Oil of New Jersey) (Katzell & Austin, 1992). In addition, universities organized research centers to investigate aspects of I-O psychology. For example, in 1944, Lewin established the Research Center for Group Dynamics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he collaborated with a similar group in London, the Tavistock Institute of Human Relations. Together the organizations cre- ated the journal Human Relations in 1947. Because of the work of Lewin and his colleagues, emphasis shifted toward human relations rather than the technical aspects of produc- tion. Shortly after Lewin’s death in 1947, the Research Cen- ter for Group Dynamics was relocated to the University of Michigan. The center joined the Survey Research Center, which had been in existence since 1946 under the direction of Rensis Likert (Hilgard, 1987). Other university research cen- ters that partially devoted their efforts to I-O psychology were located at Ohio State University with its leadership research program, Cornell University with its studies of satis- faction in work and retirement, Western Reserve University with its emphasis on personnel problems and occupational guidance, and Purdue University with its occupational research (Katzell & Austin, 1992).

Unrest surfaced in America’s society during the 1950s and 1960s because of changes in values and attention to

discriminatory and unfair practices. Society demanded equi- table practices in organizations. As it had during the depres- sion, the government intervened, and civil-rights legislation was created. The unrest and chaos continued throughout the 1960s and 1970s as the United States entered the Vietnam War, baby boomers entered the workforce, and international and foreign competition became a threat. According to Dipboye, Smith, and Howell (1994), the fabric of the American society was disintegrating. A new generation of employees was questioning the authority of organizations, and a general revulsion against fascism and authoritarianism stimulated interest in democracy and autonomy in the work- place (Dipboye et al., 1994). These changing societal views inﬂuenced organizations to rethink their way of dealing with employees. How the organization could best serve the indi- vidual became important. Theories about organizations as open, sociotechnical systems were developed, which stimu- lated research in areas of communication, conﬂict manage- ment, socialization, and organizational climate and culture. The development of interventions for facilitating organiza- tional change and development (OD) resulted in an interface of I and O approaches. During the 1980s, known as the health decade, research was initiated on worker stress, health, and well-being (e.g., Ilgen, 1990).

Society’s unrest and questioning raised consciousness about many social issues, which led to additional research and applications concerning job involvement, organizational commitment, antisocial behaviors, the psychological con- tract, and organizational citizenship behaviors. Muchinsky (2000) noted, “In the past 10–15 years, we have had to ad- dress new aspects of organizational behavior about which we had little knowledge. The depth and magnitude of these issues in the psychology of work have had a profound impact on the profession of I-O psychology” (p. 295).

A socioeconomic factor that affects the work of I-O psy- chologists is the demographics of the workforce. Two recent changes in the workforce are worth noting: diversity and quantity. The increasing diversity of the U.S. population cre- ates a diverse workforce in terms of gender, age, ethnicity, race, and culture. There are now various subgroups of em- ployees, with minority groups increasing as a proportion of the workforce, the bulk of the workforce (baby boomers) aging, and life expectancies increasing (Briggs, 1987; Cohen, 1995). Diversity in the workforce can also be attributed to a global marketplace because multinational organizations are hiring employees from an international labor market. A di- verse workforce has implications for both practice and re- search in I-O psychology (see Triandis, Kurowoski, & Gelfand, 1994). For example, organizations need to identify ways to individualize reward systems and recruit and retain

diverse employees. Theories, research methods, and applica- tions will need to include individual differences with regard to age, gender, ethnicity, race, and culture.

In addition to diversity, the supply of workers is shrinking (Cascio, 1995; Cohen, 1995). The birth rate has declined for the past 20 to 30 years, and individuals are retiring earlier be- cause of the prosperous economy during the 1990s (Aiman- Smith & Koppes, 2000). The shrinking labor force, record low unemployment associated with a strong economy, and accelerated global competition has engendered new topics for I-O psychologists (e.g., acquisitions/mergers, employee re- tention, work/family balance) and a revisiting of traditional issues (e.g., job analysis, selection, training and develop- ment, performance appraisal) (Cascio, 1995). I-O psychology does not exist in a vacuum; societal forces will continue to inﬂuence the discipline. Thus, additional research on socio- economic forces is warranted.
