## THE MIDDLE AGES TO THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY

Sometime in the sixth century, monks began copying and translating available Greek manuscripts. Libraries of impor- tant abbeys contained summaries of Galen and other Greek physicians. Until approximately the twelfth century, monks in some monasteries as well as local healers and itinerant doctors provided any medical treatment in the Hippocratic- Galenic tradition. From the eighth to the thirteenth century, Arab and Jewish scholars were preeminent in medicine and science. What came to be known as “Galenism,” was based on Arabic syntheses and elaborations of his theories,

dominated Byzantine and Arabic medical theory. Many of these treatises were translated into Latin in the twelfth cen- tury and were used as medical texts in Western Europe uni- versities established by the Roman Catholic Church. They were, in fact, a major source of medical knowledge for physicians in Western Europe through the seventeenth cen- tury. In addition, many Middle Eastern doctors migrated to Europe bringing knowledge of Arabic science with them. Clark (1984) states that recent research has indicated that by the late sixteenth century, with the tremendous increase in literacy at the time (and, we add, by word of mouth) the average European had at least a partial knowledge of the accepted medical theory and practice.

A major tenet of Christianity was the importance of com- passion and charity toward the unfortunate. Hospices were established to provide shelter and succor for the destitute— the orphaned, the aged, the disabled, the chronically ill (including the mentally ill), and the destitute. Hospitals were founded, originally attached to monasteries, where the in- sane, who were usually regarded as sick, were accepted.

Manyfundamentalconceptsofhumannature,derivedfrom classical philosophy, were incorporated into the developing Christian theology. St.Augustine (354–430), who was greatly inﬂuenced by Neoplatonism, attempted to reconcile Plato’s theories with Christian theology and St. Thomas Aquinas (1225–1274), incorporated aspects of Aristotelian philosophy into Christian theology. Christianity, gradually became a sin- gle unifying ideology in Western Europe and its doctrines cametohaveapervasiveinﬂuenceonallaspectsofhumanlife. The dualism of an immortal soul in a mortal body is cen- tral to Christian theology. Christian doctrine held that salva- tion of the soul requires renunciation of the pleasures of this world, which are temptations to sin. Unpleasant and painful experiences, including psychological suffering, could be in- terpreted as punishment from God for sin. People with clearly psychological disorders (“soul sickness”) were often treated by a priest with prayers and counseling. Handbooks were issued for priests with advice on how to deal with psy- chological problems. They included guidelines for counsel- ing, moral advice, recognition of responsibility.

Although faith healing and demonology increased with the spread of Christianity, it did not replace medical treatment amongthosewhohadaccesstoandcouldaffordit.Theimpor- tance of demonological theories to the understanding of psy- chopathology throughout the Middle Ages and Renaissance has been greatly overemphasized. It was usually assumed that demons could only cause symptoms indirectly by corrupting the humors and animal spirits of the body. Demonology was not invoked for most illness and deaths, including epidemic

disease, but only when the usual theories were not adequate to explain a particular illness (see Clark, 1984).