# 20 Psychology as a Science

behavioral and maturational approaches in examining motor development in children (e.g., McGraw, 1935; 1943).

In the decades of the 1950s and 1960s, the language and models that stimulated psychological research began to change. Explanations of behavior derived from experiments on maze learning and classical and operant-conditioning research came under attack from those studying more com- plex behavior patterns (e.g., Harlow, 1953). Rote learning of serial lists and verbal paired associates were acknowledged to represent only a limited domain of human learning (Melton, 1956). Information theory, developed during World War II as a tool for measuring the capacity of humans as processors and transmitters of information, provided a new measure of human performance and implied capacities for making judgments and choices (Attneave, 1959). Informa- tion theory offered fresh interpretations of choice reaction- time experiments (e.g., Hick, 1952) and the limits of human attention and immediate memory (Miller, 1956). Discussions of human capacities to reduce, transmit, or create information renewed interest in cognitive capacities of decision making and problem solving that suggested analogies to the recently developed technology of the computer.

Interest in cognitive development revitalized child psy- chology in moving from a focus on sensory-motor develop- ment to a focus on thinking, the formation of concepts, and the child’s understanding of the world. The theories of Jean Piaget (1896–1980) that describe the development of lan- guage and cognition in childhood had appeared in the 1920s and 1930s in Europe (e.g., Piaget, 1929) but had an impact in the United States only decades later (Flavell, 1963). Experi- mental research that explored cognitive and social develop- ment in children came to dominate the ﬁeld of developmental psychology, no longer simply child psychology but soon to cover the life span. This shift in emphasis in the study of human development paralleled changes in research on adults and on animals.

Psychologists appeared to be less self-consciously con- cerned with the status of psychology as a science and more concerned with the kind of science psychology was to be.The behavioralviewofalargelypassiveorganismwhosemechan- ical behavior was governed by environmental events became an increasingly less satisfactory model. Calls for a humanis- tic, rather than a mechanistic, science of psychology (Giorgi, 1970; Maslow, 1966) called for a view of human beings as ac- tively engaged with the environment, thinking and deciding rather than simply responding to external events. The results of Pavlovian conditioning experiments began to be inter- preted in terms of cognitive events (e.g., Rescorla, 1966) and signaled the increasing willingness to consider the role of

mental processes that determined behavior in both humans and animals. The journals Cognitive Psychology (1970) and Memory and Cognition (1973) were founded to provide an outlet to the burgeoning research in human memory that was less characteristic of traditional associationistic theories (Warren, 1921; Robinson, 1932/1964) and more inﬂuenced by analogies to computers and conceptions of information processing. Topics of the older mentalistic psychology, such as attention, concept formation, and thinking, became more prominent in psychological research. The term mind, ban- ished from the psychological lexicon in the heyday of be- havioral theories, began to reappear in textbooks and, more signiﬁcantly, in developing theories of human and animal cognitive capacities. The magnitude of the shift in research agendas and theoretical constructs suggested that psychol- ogy had undergone a revolutionary change, while others re- garded the shift as part of the normal historical development of the discipline (Leahey, 1992). Nevertheless, these devel- opments in scientiﬁc psychology represent the continuing vi- tality of the discipline as psychologists address traditional problems of mind and behavior in forging the science of psy- chology. These efforts inform the content of the volumes and chapters that follow and properly belong to contemporary psychology.