# 396 Forensic Psychology

desegregation. The resulting Social Science Memo, drafted by Clark, Cook, and others, urged a strict 1-year deadline for desegregation, although this point was troubling to several group members (Jackson, 1998). The Memo also pointed out that “There is a considerable body of evidence indicating that where the situation demands that an individual act as if he were not prejudiced, he will do so in spite of his continued prejudice” (quoted in Jackson, 1998, p. 170). The Supreme Court did not make a clear choice between “immediate” and “gradual.” Instead, in May 1955, the court remanded the cases back to the federal district courts, which were ordered to desegregate the public schools “with all deliberate speed” (Brown v. Board of Education, 1955).

Although the Social Science Statement has been widely lauded as one of psychology’s greatest contributions to soci- ety, it has remained controversial. Some observers argued that the Statement really had little or no effect on the Supreme Court; others criticized the uneven research support for the Statement (e.g., Cahn, 1955; Karst, 1960). The attacks on the validity of the Social Science Statement reminded one observer (Bersoff, 1986, p. 154) of Wigmore’s (1909) rejoin- der to Münsterberg (1908) more than four decades earlier. Later, other psychologists (e.g., Gerard, 1983), perhaps frustrated by the uneven results of desegregation in the two decades after the Brown decisions, questioned whether the points made in the Statement were valid. In reply, Cook (1979, 1984) noted that the mixed nature of subsequent re- search results pertaining to the effects of desegregation were not surprising, because rarely did desegregation occur under conditions conducive to favorable outcomes for the children participating. Cook (1984, p. 831) suggested rather that there had been “an evident increase in the credibility of the social sciences as reﬂected by the extraordinary range of policy questions to which social science research is now being applied. This suggests that the social science role in public policy has been steadily growing and will continue to do so in the future.”