---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 177e5d9a520d9e01506d777c3bc4a1c05352ba32
title: untitled
---
# Industrial-Organizational Psychology

communication, medicine, administrative systems, and the like. Work may be redesigned or a job may become obso- lete because of technological advances. For example, when the typewriter was introduced in the late 1800s, the occupa- tion of copyist became obsolete and typist emerged as a new job (Dipboye et al., 1994). Recently, I-O psychologists (Howard, 1995) examined the inﬂuence of computer tech- nologies on the functioning of organizations, which in turn affects the fundamental nature of work.

Craiger (1997) described two paradigm shifts in the his- tory of computer technology and organizations. The ﬁrst shift occurred from the 1950s to the 1980s when computers used for military purposes were converted to business purposes. Initially, only the most technically skilled individuals could use the complex technology; thus, computers were typically housed in management information systems departments. After IBM introduced the ﬁrst stand-alone desktop personal computer in 1981, computers appeared at a rapid rate and al- lowed all employees to work directly with the technology; however, employees still worked in isolation, as the comput- ers were not connected. The second paradigm shift occurred in the early 1980s when computer technology was installed throughout organizations. The ubiquity of computer technol- ogy inspired organizational leaders to reevaluate their busi- ness practices and organizational structures (Craiger, 1997). Then, the local area network (LAN) and client-server net- works were introduced, allowing workers to share hardware, software, and information. Organizations adopting this net- work technology were called open-networked organizations. The primary work unit was transformed from individuals and typical department work groups to empowered work teams (Tapscott & Caston, 1993). The rise of information technology permitted organizations to (a) “have a high- performance team structure,” (b) “function as integrated businesses despite high business unit autonomy,” and (c) “to reach out and develop new relationships with external orga- nizations—to become an ‘extended enterprise’” (Tapscott & Caston, 1993, p. 14).

These changes in organizational functioning affect I-O psychology research and practice in several ways. Technol- ogy innovations have grown rapidly in human resources practices (Downey, 2000). More sophisticated selection tools have been developed, validated, and implemented (e.g., in- terview kiosks, computerized adaptive testing). New perfor- mance criteria and methods for evaluating performance (computer-aided performance appraisal) will need to be generated as a result of the open-networked organization (Craiger, 1997). Computer monitoring of efﬁciency and accuracy of employees (e.g., keyboard operators) and

surveillance technologies are currently in use (Dipboye et al., 1994). Computer-based training (CBT), Web training, and multimedia instructional formats have become a standard in college education and several organizations. Implications of technology on the design of jobs and teams will need investi- gation. With these technological advances, training for learn- ing and adapting to changes in technology will become essential (Cascio, 1995).

Changes in technology also impact the research and statis- tical methods I-O psychologists use. Sophisticated statistical methodologies blossomed with the availability of computers and software in the 1980s and 1990s. SIOP past president (1995–1996) Michael A. Campion noted, “The advent of computers is certainly partially responsible for the advanced statistics we use” (Michael A. Campion, personal communi- cation, September 22, 2000). Examples include item re- sponse theory, structural equation modeling, meta-analysis, event history analysis, and other methods for the study of change (Katzell & Austin, 1992). In addition, the Internet has changed communication patterns and research methods by making correspondence and information accessible. Most re- cently, SIOP leaders recognized the importance of technol- ogy for the discipline by devoting a portion of SIOP’s 2001 annual conference to technological issues for the ﬁrst time (SIOP Executive Committee Meeting Minutes, September, 24, 2000).
