# Amicus Curiae Briefs

At about the same time, the ﬁrst legal amicus curiae (“friend of the court”) brief that contained then-current social science (extralegal) knowledge about an issue was submitted to the Oregon Supreme Court by attorney (and later U.S. Supreme Court justice) Louis Brandeis, in Muller v. Oregon (1908). The brief argued that Oregon’s statute limiting women to 10-hour workdays should be upheld because social science knowledge showed that longer workdays would be deleterious to women’s health and well-being. The court’s decision upheld the position taken in the brief. Subsequently, such briefs have been called “Brandeis briefs” or science- translation briefs. The original Brandeis brief remains the source of some controversy because of its references to “general ‘female weakness’” and to “the periodical semi- pathological state of women” (quoted in Monahan & Loftus, 1982, p. 463). The “evidence” presented consisted largely of value statements and casual observations. This brief did not instantly start a trend, as presenting extralegal information to the courts did not become common until the late 1930s (Hafemeister & Melton, 1987).

The Muller (1908) case is generally recognized as the ﬁrst historical example of using social science data as social authority (Monahan & Walker, 1987) in order to create or change a legal rule. The most famous case of this sort is prob- ably Brown v. Board of Education (1954), the landmark ruling that made school segregation illegal. This was also the ﬁrst application of social science to attack, rather than sup- port, the actions of the state (Hafemeister & Melton, 1987). The science-translation brief was known as the “Social Sci- ence Statement.” Because this was a case with extraordinary social, political, and societal ramiﬁcations, we will discuss it in some detail.

In the early 1950s, lawyers from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People’s Legal Defense and Education Fund, led by Thurgood Marshall (who later be- came a Justice on the U.S. Supreme Court), were working on several segregation cases that they hoped would reach the Supreme Court. Within psychology, a committee on inter- group relations, formed by the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues (SPSSI) shortly after World War II, prepared a statement on this issue for four school segregation cases that were moving toward the U.S. Supreme Court. The

Court agreed to hear the ﬁrst two of the school segregation cases in 1952. Three members of the committee, Kenneth B. Clark, Isidor Chein, and Stuart Cook, drafted a statement submitted to the Supreme Court. This appendix to the plain- tiffs’ legal briefs, labeled the Social Science Statement, did not discuss speciﬁc research studies but referred to the rele- vant research in 35 footnotes. The Statement made three central arguments (Kluger, 1976): (a) Segregation was psy- chologically damaging to minority group children. It pro- duced low self-esteem, self-hatred, frustration, and increased chances of delinquency. (b) Segregation was also harmful to majority group children, who experienced a distorted sense of reality, confusion, and “moral cynicism.” (c) Desegrega- tion could proceed smoothly if it were done quickly and ﬁrmly. The third argument relied heavily on studies of beneﬁcial interracial contact in housing and employment sit- uations. The Statement framed the argument strictly in scien- tiﬁc terms rather than political, legal, or moral ones. The Statement was subsequently signed by 32 other prominent social scientists. Included among the signatures were those of 14 past or future presidents of SPSSI (Jackson, 1998) and most of the psychologists who had been studying social prej- udice since the 1930s.

During deliberations, the Supreme Court justices asked both sides to prepare new arguments on the issue of whether desegregation should be immediate and complete, or whether “an effective gradual adjustment” would be better. Psychol- ogy’s response, written by Kenneth B. Clark (1953), con- cluded that immediate desegregation could be effective when imposed swiftly and with ﬁrm authority from above. Five conditions that would ensure effective desegregation were described: (a) a clear and unequivocal statement of policy by prestigious leaders; (b) ﬁrm enforcement of the new policy; (c) a willingness to deal strongly with violations; (d) a refusal to allow subterfuge or delay by local authorities; and (e) an appeal to individuals based on their religious principles of brotherhood and the American tradition of fair play and justice.

On May 14, 1954, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that school segregation was a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. This was the court’s ﬁrst major decision under its new chief justice, Earl Warren. Warren wrote that “modern authority” showed that the assumptions implicit in the 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson decision that had upheld so-called “sepa- rate but equal” facilities were not valid. All seven sources cited in support of this point (in footnote 11) had been dis- cussed in the Social Science Statement.

But the psychologists’job was not yet over. After its 1954 Brown decision, the Court asked for yet another round of arguments focusing on the issue of immediate versus gradual