---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 387748d510b97f36c651d332aa956eb0468343e1
title: untitled
---
## PIONEERING APPLICATIONS OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE

When the science of psychology began in America in the last quarter of the nineteenth century, academicians found them- selves in competition with practitioners for the label of “psychologist.” The academics sought to draw boundaries between their discipline and the many pseudopsychologies. The new psychological scientists “used their battles with spiritualists [and phrenologists and others] to legitimize psy- chology as a science and create a new role for themselves as guardians of the scientiﬁc worldview” (Coon, 1992, p. 143). Although American psychologists of the late nineteenth century may have been housed within the academy, they were not bent on a pure science that excluded practical prob- lems. Applications to real-world issues emerged in the earli- est days of the new laboratories. Not surprisingly, the ﬁrst applications were in the ﬁeld of education.

By 1892, the year in which he founded the American Psychological Association (APA), Clark University president G. Stanley Hall (1844–1924) was the recognized leader of the child study movement in America, a national movement that was directed at educational reform. Hall and his colleagues at Clark organized a research effort using schoolteachers, parents, and college educators (including psychologists) to collect data on children, largely through the use of question- naires, that would lead to a total understanding of the child. With this understanding, teachers could be better trained, school curricula could be better designed, and education could be better suited to individual student needs. Clark Uni- versity served as a clearinghouse for these studies, accu- mulating data from more than 190 different questionnaires. Various universities with child study interests (such as Clark, Stanford University, and the Universities of Illinois and

Nebraska) held summer programs for schoolteachers, admin- istrators, and educators in normal colleges (i.e., colleges in which teachers were trained) to dispense the new knowledge of the child and to describe the implications of this knowl- edge for teacher training and school reform (Davidson & Benjamin, 1987).

Although the questionnaires were the principal research tools of child study, various mental tests were also em- ployed. The mental tests were an outgrowth of the anthropo- metric tests developed by Francis Galton (1822–1911) in England in the 1880s and imported to America by James McKeen Cattell (1860–1944). Cattell actually coined the term “mental test” in an 1890 article in which he described a proposed program of research based on sensory, motor, and cognitive measures (Cattell, 1890; Sokal, 1982b). A few years later he was conﬁdent enough in the validity of the measures to suggest that they had value in school settings as “a useful indication of the progress, condition, and aptitudes of the pupil” and further, that these “tests might serve as a means of training and education” (Cattell, 1893, p. 257). By 1895, severalAmerican psychology laboratories had adopted a similar mode of testing and were using the tests as diag- nostic instruments, principally of intellectual functioning. This was the start of a measurement of individual differences that would deﬁne American psychology, particularly applied psychology, throughout the twentieth century.

Another of the pioneers in applied psychology was a University of Pennsylvania professor, Lightner Witmer (1867–1956), who in 1896 opened the ﬁrst psychology clinic in America, and perhaps in the world. In March of that year, a local schoolteacher brought a 14-year-old boy to see Witmer. The boy had difﬁculties with spelling, and the teacher reasoned that if psychology was the science of mind, then it ought to be able to solve such problems. Witmer dealt with the boy’s problem successfully. By the summer, Witmer was seeing similar cases at the university, which led to the opening of his clinic (Baker, 1988). So enthused was he with this applied success that he gave an address at the annual meeting of the American Psychological Association that December in which he spoke about using psychology to solve learning difﬁculties in schoolchildren. He urged his col- leagues to use their science to “throw light upon the problems that confront humanity” (Witmer, 1897, p. 116).

The clinic grew slowly at ﬁrst, with Witmer handling much of the caseload himself, mostly schoolchildren present- ing with learning and/or behavioral problems. In 1907, he began editing and publishing a new journal, The Psychologi- cal Clinic, in which he described the cases and the diagnostic and treatment methods used. In the ﬁrst issue of that journal, Witmer outlined a program of graduate training in a ﬁeld he

designated as “clinical psychology” (Witmer, 1907). Based on the work in his clinic and his promotional efforts on behalf of applying psychology to the remediation of learning and behavioral problems, Witmer has generally been acknowl- edged as the founder of clinical psychology and school psy- chology in America (McReynolds, 1997).

In addition to schools and clinics, the new psychology also quickly found its way into the world of business. In the fall of 1895, Harlow Gale (1862–1945), a psychology in- structor at the University of Minnesota, began his research on the psychology of advertising. He sent a brief questionnaire to approximately 200 businesses in the Minneapolis–St. Paul area asking them about their advertising practices. He wrote, “It is our aim to ﬁnd the mental processes which go on in the minds of the customers from the time they see an advertise- ment until they have purchased the article advertised” (Gale, 1900, p. 39). Gale discovered that the business community may not have been as interested in psychology as he was in their ﬁeld; only about 20 businesses returned his question- naire, a return rate of 10%. In the next 5 years, however, a theoretical debate among advertisers about the nature of con- sumer motivation led the advertising community to make contact with psychology, initially with Walter Dill Scott (1869–1955), who published books on the psychology of ad- vertising in 1903 and 1908. With his work, the ﬁeld of indus- trial psychology was born (Benjamin, in press). By 1915, many psychologists were employed full-time in the business ﬁeld in advertising, sales, and personnel work.

Thus, whereas many of the early academic psychologists appeared content to remain in their laboratories where they used their new scientiﬁc techniques to answer age-old ques- tions of mind, others were lured beyond the ivy-covered walls, motivated by a need for money or a curiosity about problems in the world outside of the academy or by a need to demonstrate the value of the new science of psychology through application. It was the work of those pioneers that marked the beginning of the new profession of psychology, a profession that was to be grounded in science.
