---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 96b186150e9e8974de997c6b98b01315d4e565c4
title: untitled
---
# 550 Professional Organizations

problems of human–machine interaction. Disciplines or pro- fessions represented in the society include psychologists, en- gineers, physicians, and physiologists. The name of the group was changed to the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society in 1992. Membership at the end of the twentieth century was approximately 5,200.

The Cognitive Science Society was established in 1979 to promote interdisciplinary work in cognition. Its members in- clude psychologists, linguists, computer scientists, educators, and philosophers. The Society of Behavioral Medicine was founded in 1978 for professionals and scientists from psy- chology, medicine, public health, and nursing. The focus of the society is on the relationships among behavior, health, and illness.

In the 1920s, interest grew in developing a science of child development. Both the Commonwealth Fund and the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Foundation gave large grants to start or sustain child development institutes (Lomax, 1977). In 1925, the National Academy of Sciences formed a Committee in Child Development. In 1927, the committee published the ﬁrst compendium of research in child development, Child Development Abstracts and Bibliography. In 1933, the Society for Research in Child Development (SRCD) was or- ganized and the Committee on Child Development was disbanded. After a period of growth in the 1930s, the SRCD experienced a decrease in members and activities in the 1940s, followed by an expansion in numbers and activities that continued to the end of the century.

In 2000, membership in the society exceeded 5,000 and comprised scientists and professionals from many disci- plines, including psychology. The society’s publishing pro- gram at the beginning of the twenty-ﬁrst century included three journals: Child Development, Child Development Ab- stracts and Bibliography, and Monographs of the Society for Research in Child Development. Other society publications were The Social Policy Report, a newsletter, and a member- ship directory.

The society became active in the formulation of social policy applications based upon child development research. To this end, the society established a Government Fellows Program in Child Development in 1978. The fellows worked to keep the relevant federal agencies informed of child re- search and to facilitate the development of social policy based upon scientiﬁc research (Hagen, 2000).

The World Federation for Mental Health (WFMH) was or- ganized in 1948. Its predecessor was the International Com- mittee for Mental Hygiene, an organization founded in 1919 by Clifford Beers (Dain, 1980). Beers had been an asylum patient as a young man and upon his discharge wrote an exposé of the horrors and ineptitude of the asylum system. A Mind That Found Itself (1908) was an international

best-seller. Beers took advantage of his public visibility and founded the National Committee for Mental Hygiene (NCMH) in 1909. The NCMH worked to reform psychiatric institutions and treatment.

Citizen groups and medical professionals in other coun- tries organized equivalent societies, and Beers was encour- aged to start a new international group. He did so in 1919, and the International Committee for Mental Hygiene (ICMH) was formed with broad support from a wide array of mental health professionals and citizen groups. The ICMH held the First International Congress on Mental Hygiene in 1930 in Washington, D.C. The congress had over 3,000 registered at- tendees, among them all the leading ﬁgures in psychiatry, psychology, and social work as well as many prominent po- litical and medical ﬁgures. By the advent of the Second Inter- national Congress on Mental Hygiene held in France in 1937, enthusiasm and support had waned. The congress was much smaller and bedeviled by complaints about the inﬂuence of Nazi sympathizers (Dain, 1980). Beers made plans to hold another congress, but World War II prevented its occurrence. Beers died before the end of the war, and the international movement had no effective leader.

After the war, UNESCO and the World Health Organiza- tion (WHO) prompted mental health professionals from many countries to convene the Third International Congress on Mental Hygiene in London. The two UN agencies sought to stimulate a new international mental health organization that was less dominated by psychiatry and more inclusive of other human and social sciences (Rees, 1963). Acommission was formed and supported by UNESCO and WHO to draw up plans for the new organization. In 1948, the World Feder- ation for Mental Health was founded at the Third Interna- tional Congress for Mental Hygiene (Brody, 2000).

The federation grew after its inception to include a wide array of individual mental health providers and researchers, users of mental health services, and nongovernment organiza- tions.MembershipintheWFMHintheyear2000stoodat170 nationalorinternationalorganizationalmembers,170regional afﬁliate members, and more than 2,300 individual members. The major work of the federation is to promote mental health worldwide through a wide array of educational and advocacy efforts. To that end, it holds regional conferences, a biennial congress, and publishes a newsletter. The federation is an ap- proved mental health consultant to every major UN agency.
