data/clean/untitled__chunk1689.md, before:

## Monitoring Neuropsychological Functioning 293

1960s that his seminal contributions to neuropsychology ﬁrst became widely appreciated. The initial organization of his procedures into a formal test manual was published in the 1970s (Christensen, 1975), and further standardization and validation of his measures during the 1980s resulted in publi- cation of the Luria-Nebraska Neuropsychological Battery (LNNB; Golden, Purisch, & Hammeke, 1985).

The face of neuropsychological assessment and the uses to which it is put have gradually changed since the early work that led to the Halstead-Reitan and Luria-Nebraska batteries. Consistent with the underlying premise of both batteries that identiﬁcation of brain dysfunction requires assessment of a range of cognitive functions, many speciﬁcally focused mea- sures of concept formation, memory, psychomotor, language, and other related capacities were designed for use instead of or as supplements to these batteries. The speciﬁc measures most commonly used by contemporary neuropsychologists includetheWechslerMemoryScale,theBostonNamingTest, the Verbal Fluency Test, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, the California Verbal Learning Test, the Rey-Osterreith Complex Figure Test, the Stroop Neuropsychological Screening Test, and two components of the HRB, the Finger Tapping Test and the Trail Making Test (Butler et al., 1991; Camara et al., 2000; for further information concerning these and other neu- ropsychological assessment instruments, see Lezak, 1995; Spreen & Strauss, 1998).

Along with beneﬁting from the availability of increasingly reﬁned measures, neuropsychological examiners began as early as the 1950s to move beyond what had been their orig- inal focus in applied practice, which was helping to deter- mine whether a patient’s complaints were “functional” in nature (i.e., psychologically determined) or “organic” (i.e., resulting from central nervous system dysfunction). Instead of inferring from test data merely the likelihood of a patient’s having a brain lesion, skilled neuropsychologists became proﬁcient in identifying which side of the brain and which lobe were likely to contain the lesion. Over time, however, the development of sophisticated radiographic techniques for determining the presence, location, and laterality of brain damage rendered neuropsychological tests all but superﬂu- ous for this purpose, except as screening measures. Concur- rently, on the other hand, contemporary neuropsychological assessment became increasingly valuable in professional practice by reverting to the purpose Halstead originally had in mind back in the 1930s: namely, evaluating an individual’s strengths and weaknesses across a broad range of perceptual, cognitive, language, and sensorimotor functions.

With its current focus on the measurement of functioning capacities, neuropsychological assessment provides useful information concerning what people can be expected to do in

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk1689.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 40e976680ebfac99d6546e13993638dbef77e47b
title: untitled
---
# Neuropsychological Test Batteries

The inception of broadly based and multifaceted test batteries for assessing neuropsychological functioning can be credited to the efforts of Ward Halstead (1908–1969), who in 1935 established a laboratory at the University of Chicago for the purpose of studying the effects of brain damage. Halstead’s observations convinced him that brain damage produces a wide range of cognitive, perceptual, and sensorimotor deﬁcits that cannot be identiﬁed by any single psychological test. He accordingly devised numerous tasks for measuring various aspects of cerebral functioning. In subsequent collab- oration with one of his graduate students, Ralph Reitan, he gradually reduced the number of these tasks to seven for which empirically determined cutoff scores showed good promise for distinguishing normal from impaired brain func- tioning. This set of tasks became formalized as the Halstead- Reitan Neuropsychological Test Battery (HRB) in the 1950s and continues to have a major place in neuropsychological assessment (see Reitan & Wolfson, 1993). Developed origi- nally with adults, the HRB was later extended down- ward for children age 9 to 15 (Halstead Neuropsychological Test Battery for Children and Allied Procedures) and age 5 to 9 (Reitan-Indiana Neuropsychological Test Battery for Children).

Theprimarilyquantitativeapproachtoneuropsychological assessment represented by the HRB stimulated considerable research and attracted to assessment practice a substantial contingent of brain-behavior scientists who might not other- wise have become directly involved in clinical work. Also exerting a lasting inﬂuence on assessment methods was a qualitative approach to identifying neuropsychological im- pairment, which stemmed from the work of Alexander Luria (1902–1977) in the Soviet Union. Luria believed that more could be learned from behavioral features of how people deal with test materials than from the scores they earn, and he accordingly emphasized measures designed to maximize opportunities for respondents to demonstrate various kinds of behavior he considered relevant in diagnosing brain dysfunction.

In Luria’s approach, conclusions are based less on psycho- metricdatathanonanexaminer’sobservationsandinferences. Although Luria’s testing methods and his theoretical formula- tion of functional systems in the brain date from the 1930s, it was not until his work was ﬁrst translated into English in the
