# Woman as Problem

Given psychology’s focus on the individual and its emphasis on inner qualities and traits, psychologists, including feminist psychologists, have been especially susceptible to the fallacy of accounting for women’s social position solely in terms of personal deﬁciencies. This approach has been called the woman-as-problem framework (Crawford & Marecek, 1989). There are many examples: In the area of motivational problems or conﬂicts, women have been said to suffer from fear of success (Horner, 1970), the Cinderella complex, and the impostor phenomenon (Clance, Dingman, Reviere, & Stober, 1995). They were characterized as lacking crucial skills such as assertiveness (Lakoff, 1975). And they were urged to view therapy as a form of compensatory resocializa- tion that would rectify their deﬁciencies. The problems faced by women in corporate management have also been charac- terized in terms of individual deﬁcits. This individual-deﬁcit model represented women as lacking in business skills, leadership ability, and appropriate interpersonal skills; it neglected structural and institutional aspects of sex discrimi- nation (Nieva & Gutek, 1981).

Research within the woman-as-problem framework has sought to explain psychological problems or deﬁcits of women in terms of socialization or upbringing. Certainly, gender-role socialization has been a useful explanatory device. However, it emphasizes distal causes of gender dif- ferences, such as early socialization; this may lead to ne- glecting immediate causes. For example, women may speak “unassertively” as an adaptive response to the immediate so- cial situation, not because they lack the skills to speak more assertively. Cues in that situation may indicate that assertive behavior is unwelcome or will be penalized. Moreover, the emphasis on early socialization fails to challenge the use of men’s behavior as the norm against which women are mea- sured. That is, women’s behavior is judged as problematic in comparison to an idealized representation of men’s behavior. For example, the “new assertive woman” who was held up as the ideal speaker in assertiveness-training manuals of the 1970s exhibited the characteristics attributed to masculine speakers in North American culture (Crawford, 1995).

Despite its drawbacks, the woman-as-problem framework has remained prominent in the ﬁeld of psychology of women. It has extended to the realm of self-help psychology, with its largely female audience and its offerings based on the premise that women’s problems are of their own making (Worell, 1988). Perhaps this framework has been so popular because it ﬁts comfortably within both conventional psychol- ogy and popular culture. It is individualist, it fosters research on sex differences, and—unlike the study of power relations between the sexes or structural obstacles to equality—it does not call for social change.