---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 81ab4809aecb64fa01cd50d6a47e1b9df3817e2f
title: untitled
---
## The Gestaltists and the Correspondence Problem 105

of the perception of motion. He was so excited that he stopped at Frankfurt long enough to buy a version of a toy stroboscope that produced this “illusion of motion” with which to test his ideas. He noted that two lights ﬂashed through small apertures in a darkened room at long intervals would appear to be simply two discrete light ﬂashes; at very short intervals, they would appear to be two simultaneously appearing lights. However, at an intermediate time interval between the appearance of each, what would be perceived was one light in motion. This perception of movement in a stationary object, called the phi phenomenon, could not be predicted from a simple decomposition of the stimulus array into its component parts; thus, it was a direct attack on asso- ciationist and structural schools’ piecemeal analyses of ex- perience into atomistic elements. Because this motion only appears in conscious perception, it became a validation of a global phenomenological approach and ultimately would be a direct attack of on the “hard-line” behaviorism of re- searchers such as John Broadus Watson (1878–1958), who rejected any evidence based on reports or descriptions of con- scious perceptual experience. Wertheimer would stay for sev- eral years at the University of Frankfurt, where he researched this and other visual phenomena with the assistance of Kurt Koffka (1886–1941) and Wolfgang Köhler (1887–1967). To- gether they would found the theoretical school of Gestalt psy- chology. The term gestalt is usually credited to Christian Freiherr von Ehrenfels (1859–1932). He used the term to refer to the complex data that require more than immediate sense experience in order to be perceived. There is no exact equivalent to gestalt in English, with “form,” “pattern,” or “conﬁguration” sometimes being suggested as close; hence, the German term has simply been adopted as it stands.

The basic tenants of Gestalt psychology suggest that per- ception is actively organized by certain mental rules or tem- plates to form coherent objects or “wholes.” The underlying rule is that “the whole is different from the sum its parts.” Consider Figure 5.3. Most people would say that they see a square on the left and a triangle on the right. Yet notice that the individual elements that make up the square are four cir- cular dots, while the elements that make up the triangle are actually squares.The gestalt or organized percept that appears in consciousness is quite different from the sum of its parts. Few facts in perception are as well known as the gestalt laws of perceptual grouping, which include grouping by proximity, similarity, closure (as in Figure 5.3), and so forth. There had been a number of precursors to the gestalt laws of organization, and theorists such as Stumpf and Schumann had noticed that certain arrangements of stimuli are associated with the formation of perceptual units. These investigators, however, were fascinated with the fact that such added
