data/clean/untitled__chunk1876.md, before:

# 332 Abnormal Psychology

somebody was “mentally ill” served to limit that person’s freedom of action and to prevent his communications from being taken seriously. His argument went on to point out that the practice of involuntary hospitalization meant that individ- uals were being incarcerated against their will when they had not committed crimes. Taken together, these were charges that contemporary psychiatry was bad science, unreliable practice, and an abuse of civil rights.

In this context, civil rights issues of the mentally ill at- tained the same kind visibility as civil rights issues for mi- norities and for women. The ﬁrst redress for discrimination against the mentally ill was deinstitutionalization. Patients were discharged from hospitals in large numbers, some to return to their families, but many to live as welfare recipients or, in some cases, to live homeless on the streets. The scale of deinstitutionalization was large, and the results varied from striking improvements in the functioning of some patients to tragedies of death from neglect in some of the homeless men- tally ill. Discharge from the hospitals had become feasible mainly because of the efﬁcacy of the new medications. The focus of caring for the mentally ill then shifted to problems of medication maintenance outside the hospital and provision of some degree of supervisory care in halfway houses or other residential arrangements that provided transitional care be- tween the hospital and the private home. Training in the vo- cational and social skills necessary to obtain employment and to get along in society outside the hospital emerged as a more practical goal for psychological techniques than had been the case with psychotherapy.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk1876.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 321fc202a147b893c7f2e35eaddebc7612d47384
title: untitled
---
# The Rise of Anti-Psychiatry

A point of view arose that opposed the medical deﬁnition of psychopathological disorders. Known as “anti-psychiatry,” it drew inspiration from several sources. One source was Erving Goffman’s (1961) Asylums, which described the ef- fects of hospital rules and disciplines on patient behavior, ﬁnding their behavior similar to the inmates of other “total in- stitutions” such as convents, the military, and prisons. Scheff (1966) argued that the distinction between sane and insane is not a scientiﬁc one, but essentially a matter of social judg- ment and social labeling of the deviant.

Perhaps the single most inﬂuential book was The Myth of Mental Illness (Szasz, 1961), in which Thomas Szasz as- serted that the mental illnesses had no established biological basis and that they were not really a proper subject for medical diagnosis and treatment. Terms such as disease, symptom, diagnosis, therapy, and the like were therefore metaphorical when applied to psychopathology. In support of his contention, he pointed out the failure to ﬁnd a biological basis for the various mental illnesses. Instead, he said, the “patient” suffers from problems of living in a stressful world, and his behavior may be best understood as a form of both communication and coping. While much of the work was centered on the problematic status of hysteria as a disease, his criticisms were addressed to the medicalization of de- viant behavior generally. He alleged that the diagnosis that

331
