# Motivation

Today most workers in the ﬁeld prefer the term motivated behaviors to emphasize the speciﬁc features of behaviors re- lating to hunger, thirst, sex, temperature, and so forth. Karl Lashley was again a prime mover. His 1938 paper, “Experi- mental Analysis of Instinctive Behavior,” was the key. He ar- gued that motivated behavior varies and is not simply a chain of instinctive or reﬂex acts, is not dependent on any one stim- ulus, and involves central state. His conclusions, that “physi- ologically, all drives are no more than expression of the activity of speciﬁc mechanisms” and that hormones “activate some central mechanism which maintains excitability and ac- tivity,” have a very modern ring.

Several key ﬁgures in the modern development of the psychobiology of motivation are Clifford Morgan, Eliot Stellar, Kurt Richter, Frank Beach, Neal Miller, Philip Teitelbaum, and James Olds. Morgan went to graduate school at Rochester, where his professors included E. A. K. Culler and K. U. Smith and his fellow graduate students in- cluded D. Neff, J. C. R. Licklider, and P. Fitts. He then be- came an instructor at Harvard, where he ﬁrst worked in Lashley’s laboratory in 1939. He later moved to Johns Hop- kins, where he remained until 1959. As a graduate student and later at Harvard, Morgan came to doubt Cannon’s then current notion that hunger was the result of stomach con- tractions. Morgan did a series of studies showing this could not be a complete or even satisfactory account of hunger and feeding behavior. Eliot Stellar and Robert McCleary, then undergraduates at Harvard, worked with Morgan. They focused on hoarding behavior and completed a classic analysis of the internal and environmental factors control- ling the behavior.

Lashley’s general notion of a central mechanism that maintains activity was developed by Beach in an important series of papers in the 1940s and by Morgan in the ﬁrst edi- tion of his important text, Physiological Psychology (1943), into a central excitatory mechanism and ultimately a central theory of drive. This view was given a solid physiological basis by Donald B. Lindsley from the work he and H. W. Magoun, G. Moruzzi, and associates were doing on the as- cending reticular activating system. Lindsley sketched his ac- tivation theory of emotion in his important chapter in the Stevens Handbook (1951). Hebb (1955) and Stellar (1954)