---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7d6d5adba5e8a887479f6fee457719eb11b87933
title: untitled
---
## Promoting the Study of Individual Lives: Gordon Allport and Henry Murray 185

advertised psychoanalysis for a dollar or promised to “show youhowtotalkwithGod”(Crider,1936,p.371).Accusingtheir competitors of being unscientiﬁc, they cited their own training in the use of rigorous scientiﬁc methods and quantitative tech- niques (Freyd, 1926; Morawski & Hornstein, 1991; Napoli, 1981). Personality researchers promoted tests as experimental methods(Terman,1924;Woodworth,1929)andignoredorcrit- icized methods that appeared subjective. They considered the case studies of psychiatrists and psychoanalysts “unscientiﬁc and old-fashioned” (Hale, 1971, p. 115), and perhaps too simi- lar to the sensational cases reported in the popular press (see, e.g., Burnham, 1968b). Roback, for example, found Freud’s case studies more artistic than scientiﬁc (1927b) and sug- gested that many authors selected case material to “furnish in- teresting reading” or “prove a certain point” (1927a, p. 421). Indeed,Freudhadexpressedhisownambivalencetowardcase studies:“Itstillstrikesmemyselfasstrangethatthecasehisto- ries I write should read like short stories and that, as one might say, they lack the serious stamp of science” (1893–1895/1955, p.160).

GordonAllport (1897–1967) is well known as an advocate of the idiographic approach to personality, a focus on the partic- ular individual (e.g., G. W. Allport, 1937b; Pandora, 1997). Interestingly, however, his use of this approach has been both exaggerated and minimized. Labeled a “militant idiographer” by Boring (in an editorial introduction to G. W.Allport, 1958, p. 105) and accused by some critics of rejecting the nomo- thetic approach—the search for general laws via the study of common dimensions of personality (see, e.g., Skaggs, 1945), Allport in fact advocated and used both approaches (e.g., G. W. Allport, 1928, 1937b; G. W. Allport & Vernon, 1931). Other critics, noting that Allport published only one case study(1965),havecommentedonhis“ambivalenceregarding the approach that he had so long championed” (Cohler, 1993, p. 134; see also Capps, 1994; Holt, 1978; Peterson, 1988).
