---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 73257dc8c8e05a2dc94fead8715558fce9530f90
title: untitled
---
# Applied Psychological Organizations

Despite the rhetoric of experimentalism, American psycholo- gists have been particularly interested in the application of psychological science from the ﬁrst days of organized

American psychology (Benjamin, 1997a; Pickren & Dewsbury, 2002).Asmall number of psychologists worked in applied and professional settings in the early years of the dis- cipline. While many of them had free choice of career sites, others had few work options open to them by virtue of their gender or race (Guthrie, 1998; Stevens and Gardner, 1982). The establishment of the Journal of Applied Psychology in 1917 provided an outlet for research and a forum for profes- sional issues. World War I drew public attention to the poten- tial usefulness of applied psychology, especially in mental testing (Samelson, 1977). Two privately held companies were started after the war in an effort to build on this atten- tion: The Scott Company and The Psychological Corporation (Sokal, 1981). The number of psychologists interested in pro- fessional practice grew enough by the end of World War I to form a new professional organization, the American Associa- tion of Clinical Psychologists. Apparently threatened by this move, the APA co-opted the new organization by forming a Clinical Section in 1919 (Routh, 1994; Samelson, 1992).

During the interwar period, the number of psychologists engaged in various professional practices dramatically in- creased. By one count, 39% ofAPAmembers were employed in applied work in 1940. By comparison, only 9.3% of APA members were employed in a recognizably applied setting in 1916 (Finch & Odoroff, 1939, 1941). It should be kept in mind that a doctoral degree and publications were required for APA membership in this period, and many applied psy- chologists worked at the master’s level. Four semidistinct areas of practice emerged in this period: clinical, consulting, educational, and industrial/business. The settings for these practices included schools, clinics (of various kinds), homes for the mentally retarded, courts, prisons, police departments, psychiatric hospitals, guidance ofﬁces in educational settings, psychotherapy ofﬁces, social agencies, state and federal agencies, ﬁlm and radio studios, personnel ofﬁces, advertis- ing and marketing ﬁrms, life insurance companies, and pri- vate consulting ﬁrms. At least 83 APA members earned their living primarily from fee-based consultations in 1940.

This growth is also reﬂected in new psychological organi- zations that were formed between the wars. The APA mem- bership standards favored academic scientists engaged in experimental research and made it difﬁcult for psychologists with applied expertise to either gain membership or wield signiﬁcant inﬂuence within the organization (Napoli, 1981; O’Donnell, 1979). Finally, in 1926, the APA established a second-class associates membership, at least in part to help ﬁnance a new publishing venture. (In 1946, the membership categories were revised: full members became fellows, asso- ciates became “members,” and a new category of associates was developed, primarily for people without doctorates.)

Associates could not vote or hold ofﬁce in the APA. Many of the associates were psychologists interested in application and the practice of psychology.

One new organization that formed in this era (1921), the New York State Association of Consulting Psychologists, be- came the leading state association for applied work in psy- chology and was emulated by other state and regional groups. The New York group joined with other regional groups and reformed as the Association of Consulting Psychologists (ACP) in 1930. The ACP promoted professional issues such as training and licensing for all applied psychologists. In 1937, the ACP merged with other applied groups to form the American Association for Applied Psychology (AAAP), which, like the ACP, was concerned with issues relevant to professional practice. The AAAP was able to develop a na- tional voice for professional psychology before the onset of the Second World War, though its voice was somewhat muted by the dominance of academic psychologists and the lack of proportionate representation of women among its leadership (Benjamin, 1997a; Capshew, 1999).

The Journal of Consulting Psychology was the ofﬁcial publication of the AAAP and reported on both research and practice issues of professional psychology. The issue of appropriate training for the practice of psychology, in all ﬁelds but particularly in clinical psychology, was frequently discussed in the pages of the journal and at the annual meet- ings of the association. It was not directly addressed until after World War II, when the scientist-practitioner (Boulder) model developed by AAAP member David Shakow became the primary model of acceptable training.

In a few short years, the AAAP made substantive progress on behalf of its members. When the APA was reorganized during the Second World War, the AAAP was incorporated into the APA as part of the effort to make the APA more in- clusive and responsive to both scientiﬁc and professional concerns (Capshew & Hilgard, 1992). Section D, Industrial and Business, of the AAAP became APA Division 14, Indus- trial and Business Psychology. The new division sought to ensure that appropriate standards of training and practice were maintained and that industrial psychology remained on a solid research basis.

Division 14 members decided to incorporate as a separate society, the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psy- chology (SIOP), in 1982. This was the result, in part, of dissatisfaction with what was perceived as APA’s overem- phasis on practice issues at the expense of science. When the APS formed in 1988, SIOP membership was opened to APS members as well as APA members. Despite these changes, it is clear that SIOP is the historical successor to the AAAP (Benjamin, 1997a).
