# Comparative Cognition

The third major inﬂuence on comparative psychology since World War II was from the “cognitive revolution.” According to the received view, the hegemony of behaviorism precluded cognitive approaches to behavior prior to the 1960s and a major revolution occurred thereafter. In fact, however, re- search with a cognitive orientation has long been a part of comparative psychology (e.g., Dewsbury, 2000; Wasserman, 1993). Although a case can be made that there was no true revolution (Leahey, 1992), it is clear that in recent years cog- nitive perspectives have achieved a prominence in compara- tive psychology that had not been apparent previously.

This increased emphasis on cognitive perspectives was a part of the broad upsurge of interest in cognitive processes throughout psychology and related disciplines. Develop- ments in information processing, computers, and mathemati- cal logic fostered a reconstruction of psychology as a science of information as well as behavior. Some psychologists moved to overcome what they perceived as the counterpro- ductive constraints imposed by more behavioristic theories. Interest was directed in the manner in which animals represent their worlds and the consequences of such repre- sentation for behavior.

Among the topics receiving renewed interest were atten- tion, memory, timing, concept formation, counting, social

cognition, and language (Roitblat, 1987; Shettleworth, 1998; Vauclair, 1996). The most publicized research in this ﬁeld has been that of language learning. Although there had been earlier attempts to teach language to apes, such as that of Cathy and Keith Hayes at the Yerkes Laboratories (Hayes, 1951), three major approaches developed during the 1960s and 1970s. Gardner and Gardner (1969) taught American sign language to chimpanzee Washoe; Rumbaugh (e.g., Rumbaugh & Gill, 1976) studied acquisition of a computer- based language in chimpanzee Lana; and Premack (1971) used a system of sentence formation using pieces of plastic with chimpanzee Sarah. This groundbreaking research was both heavily criticized and staunchly defended. This pro- duced a fallow period, due largely to an absence of funding, during which little language research was conducted. This period was followed by a reformulation and rebirth of studies of animal language, the most remarkable of which were of bonobo Kanzi, who learned a symbol-based language with- out overt training and became efﬁcient in interpreting human speech (e.g., Savage-Rumbaugh et al., 1993). Other studies of language acquisition were conducted with an African grey parrot (Pepperberg, 1999), dolphins (Herman, 1987), and sea lions (Schusterman & Krieger, 1984).

Many of the studies in animal cognition were derived from, and closely related to, traditional research in animal learning. Other scientists made an effort to more completely revolutionize the ﬁeld of animal cognition using language suggestive of conscious processes in animals. Leading the latter effort was American ethologist Donald R. Grifﬁn (e.g., Grifﬁn, 1976b); the ﬁeld became known as cognitive ethol- ogy. Advocates of this approach contended that, with ad- vances in methodology, there are now available methods that can provide windows to the minds of animals. According to Grifﬁn (1976a), “the hypothesis that some animals are indeed aware of what they do, and of internal images that affect their behavior, simpliﬁes our view of the universe by removing the need to maintain an unparsimonious assumption that our species is qualitatively unique in this important attribute” (p. 534). Critics disagreed, contending that no methods were yet available that enable scientists to observe the internal processes of animal minds.

Among the focal areas of research in cognitive ethology have been studies of self-recognition in mirrors (e.g., Gallup, 1985). According to Gallup, humans, chimpanzees, orang- utans, and some gorillas are the only species to show evi- dence of self-recognition when presented with mirrors. The key evidence comes from “dot tests,” in which a dot is painted onto the forehead of an anesthetized animal to see if the ani- mal selectively touches the dot when awakened and presented with a mirror. Gallup believes that such behavior suggests awareness, self-awareness, and mind in chimpanzees. Critics