# 360 Counseling Psychology

Shortly after the United States entered World War I in 1917, American PsychologicalAssociation (APA) president Robert Yerkes organized psychologists to assist with the war effort. Offering the services of psychology to the nation, Yerkes es- tablished a number of committees, including an examining committee that he headed and a committee on the classiﬁca- tionofpersonnelunderthedirectionofWalterDillScott.Scott was not new to the venture; as a member of the Division of Applied Psychology at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, hewasaleaderinthedevelopmentandevaluationofselection methods. The program he introduced into the armed services proved to be highly successful in classifying recruits and bol- steredtheplaceofpsychology,especiallyappliedpsychology, inAmerica (Benjamin & Baker, in press; Napoli, 1981).

More than anything else, American psychologists demon- strated the efﬁcacy of group testing. Measures of aptitude, adjustment, interest, and ability, while less publicized than the development of group measures of intelligence, soon found applications in guidance and counseling. Indeed, the 1920s and 1930s were witness to a testing craze in public ed- ucation that provided work for secondary school counselors, educational psychologists, and test publishers. The scientiﬁc management of the student extended into higher education, and soon student personnel work would ﬂourish on college campuses alongside the faculty who were developing the in- struments of the new science (Baker, in press).

For all the possibilities, there were also limitations. Group testing, still in its infancy, had problems, none more apparent than the question of the reliability and validity of intelligence tests that failed to recognized cultural bias. The questionable use of questionable tests led to numerous claims of racial differences in intelligence and education that contributed to continued perpetuation of racial stereotyping and bias (Guthrie, 1998).

Like the First World War, the Great Depression of the 1930s provided hardships for American citizens and opportu- nities for applied psychology. With high rates of unemploy- ment and the success of the classiﬁcation work of Walter Dill Scott and colleague Walter Bingham at Carnegie Tech, fed- eral assistance was available for large-scale studies of selec- tion procedures in industry and education. The 1930s were a time of incredible development in the psychometrics of se- lection. Test of interest, aptitude, and ability were developed and studied by such well-known ﬁgures as E. K. Strong Jr., L. L. Thurstone, and E. L. Thorndike. The vocational guid- ance of the early century was transforming and branching out into areas such as student personnel work and industrial psy- chology (Super, 1955; Paterson, 1938).

The prototype of what eventually became counseling psy- chology can be found in these early activities and programs.

Of particular relevance was the Minnesota Employment Sta- bilizationResearchInstituteattheUniversityofMinnesota.A depression-era project, it was an early model of integration of science and practice, designed to scientiﬁcally study occupa- tions and employment while simultaneously ﬁnding jobs for its unemployed subjects. The director of the program, Donald G. Paterson, would soon merge all the branches of vocational guidance, applied and scientiﬁc, into a program of counseling and guidance that would serve as a model for the later formal- ization of counseling psychology (Blocher, 2000).

The 1930s also saw a rise in the number of psychologists interested in applying testing and counseling to those with more severe forms of maladjustment. Most often these psychologists were found in hospitals and clinical settings, where they worked under the direction of a psychiatrist. Many were linked to clinical work with children like those associated with Lightner Witmer and his psychological clinic at the University of Pennsylvania (Baker, 1988; McReynolds, 1997). With the aid of psychometrics (largely measures of in- telligence, individually administered) and the clinical labora- tory, these psychologists sought to establish an identity for themselves, often deﬁned in terms of clinical psychology. Indeed, they bore a resemblance to what we would now call school psychologists or clinical psychologists (Routh, 1994). However, in the 1930s and 1940s such labels were not in popular use, nor were there organized and systematic training programs for mental health professionals. All was about to change.