# 488 Ethnic Minorities

Twenty-four African American students stood shoulder to shoulder the next day in front of the council while their statement was read. They allowed the council 24 hours to respond. Robert Lee Green, president of ABPsi also spoke. He demanded that APAassess each member $50.00 to aid the black psychology cause. He also demanded that psychology stop using the black ghetto as a research colony.

Green and I were invited guests on the Today Show that week. Our brief exposure, broadcast from Washington, was seen by an estimated 19 million TV viewers. We were both nervous participants!

The black student group’s statement focused on increasing the number of black undergraduates, graduate students, and faculty and on establishing training programs for black students in the black community. The Council adopted “in principle” the black student statement and appointed George Miller and me as a committee to negotiate with the black students and to develop a more speciﬁc set of proposals to present to the October council meeting. We invited the BSPA to send negotiators to Washington to meet with us. No way. We were invited to come to Watts, a black conclave in Los Angeles, to negotiate. Miller and I ﬂew to Los Angeles where we were met at the airport and each taken to a host family in Watts. I stayed in the home of Charles Thomas, a major ﬁg- ure in black psychology. We met with students for a couple days in a small neighborhood church. Our meals were pre- pared and served by a black “ladies group.” Discussions were spirited, but friendly. Our evening meal was accompanied by unlimited quantities of Cold Duck, and during the evening numbers of black students and black psychologists joined the group for informal, light-hearted interactions. We took back to APA several proposed by-laws changes (that were quickly passed by the required 2/3 majority of those voting) and recommendations for Central Ofﬁce stafﬁng changes to help new committees ensure priority for minority-increasing efforts. APAagreed to provide space for a new BSPAsuite of

ofﬁces and to lend money to staff them. Ernestine Thomas moved to Washington to provide stafﬁng support.

By the end of the 1960s, a majority of APAmembers were sympathetic to the black demands. The country had wit- nessed a decade of struggle against the defenders of segrega- tion, Jim Crow, and racial injustice. The parallel struggle against the Vietnam war was ongoing. The climate for change was favorable.

During the same 1969 APA convention in Washington there were anti-war demonstrations by psychologists. I led a march of some 300 psychologists (many from Psychologists for Social Action) down Connecticut Avenue to Lafayette Park, across from the White House, where I. F. Stone and I spoke against the war. Later in the week, a sunrise service was held at the Lincoln Memorial when Molly Harrower, B. F. Skinner, and I spoke against the war. Many of these events were recorded by Bryce Nelson (1969) in Science. (In this same issue is a report from the Department of Health, Education and Welfare on the safety of the oral contraceptive pill saying that the beneﬁts outweigh the risks; and another article on the risks of pesticides, but no restrictions yet on the private use of DDT.) It is also worth noting that Americans had just landed on the moon. It was clearly a decade of major change.

Kenneth B. Clark was elected in 1969, the ﬁrst African American APA president. At the 1970 APA convention in Miami Beach, the APA board was confronted by a militant Association for Women in Psychology with demands for majorﬁnancialreparationsfromAPAforyearsofunequalpay, discrimination in hiring and in graduate admissions, and for blatant sexism.The registration form for the convention asked for member’s name and wife’s name, even though 30 percent of the APA membership was female. Texts in psychology re- ferred to “men and girls” and sexual harassment was rife.

All of this was to change, but someone else will tell that