# 170 Emotion

emotion, these two classes of theories exhibited most clearly the effects of sociocultural-historical factors on psychologi- cal theories. Both, in their own idiosyncratic ways, were the products of nineteenth-century moral philosophy and theol- ogy, just as the unanalyzable feeling was congruent with nineteenth-century idealism. The inﬂuence of moral and reli- gious attitudes ﬁnds a more direct expression in a theory of emotion, which implies pleasure and unpleasure, the good and the bad, rewards and punishments.

In the sense of theAmerican Protestant ethic, behaviorism raises the improvability of the human condition to a basic the- orem; it decries emotion as interfering with the “normal” (and presumably rational) progress of behavior. It opposes “fanci- ness” with respect to theory, and it budges not in the face of competingpositions;itsmostdangerouscompetitoriseclecti- cism. Behaviorism’s departure from classical Calvinism is that it does not see outward success as a sign of inward grace. Rather, in the tradition of the nineteenth-century American frontier,itespousesaProtestantpragmatisminwhichoutward success is seen as the result of the proper environment. Con- ﬂict is to be avoided, but when it occurs, it is indicative of some failure in the way in which we have arranged our envi- ronment. The best examples of these attitudes can be found when the psychologist moves his theories to the real world, as Watson (1928) did when he counseled on the raising of chil- dren. While quite content to build some fears into the child in order to establish a “certain kind of conformity with group standards,”Watson is much more uncertain about the need for any “positive” emotions. He was sure that “mother love is a dangerous instrument.” Children should never be hugged or kissed, never be allowed to sit in a mother’s lap; shaking hands with them is all that is necessary or desirable.Aclassi- cal example of the behaviorist attitude toward emotion can be foundinKantor(1921),whodecriesemotionalconsequences: They are chaotic and disturb the ongoing stream of behavior; they produce conﬂict. In contrast, Skinner (1938) noted the emotional consequences that occur during extinction; he un- derstood the conﬂict engendered by punishment, and his utopian society is based on positive reinforcement.

I have discussed the classical behaviorists here for two reasons. One is that underneath classical behaviorist inquiries into emotion is a conﬂict theory; it is obvious in Kantor, and implied in Watson and Skinner. But there is also another aspect of conﬂict in behaviorist approaches to emotion; it is the conﬂict between an underlying rational pragmatism and the necessity of dealing with emotional phenomena, which are frequently seen as unnecessary nuisances in the de- velopment and explanation of behavior. There is no implica- tion that emotions may be adaptively useful. For example, apart from mediating avoidance behavior, visceral responses

are rarely conceived of as entering the stream of adaptive and useful behavior.

One of the major aspirations of the behaviorist movement was that the laws of conditioning would provide us with laws about the acquisition and extinction of emotional states. Pavlovian (respondent, classical) procedures in particular held out high hopes that they might produce insights into how emotions are “learned.” It was generally assumed that emo- tional conditioning would provide one set of answers. How- ever, the endeavor has produced only half an answer. We know much about the laws of conditioning of visceral re- sponses, but we have learned little about the determinants of human emotional experience (see Mowrer, 1939). The most active attempt to apply behaviorist principles in the ﬁelds of therapy and behavior modiﬁcation is increasingly being faced with “cognitive” incursions.

In the area of theory, one example of neobehaviorist con- ﬂict theories is Amsel’s theory of frustration (1958, 1962). Although Amsel is in the ﬁrst instance concerned not with emotion but rather with certain motivational properties of nonreward, he writes in the tradition of the conﬂict theories. Amsel noted that the withdrawal of reward has motivational consequences. These consequences occur only after a partic- ular sequence leading to consummatory behavior has been well learned. Behavior following such blocking or frustration exhibits increased vigor, on which is based the primary claim for a motivational effect. Amsel noted that anticipatory frus- tration behaves in many respects like fear. This particular approach is the most sophisticated development of the early behaviorists’ observations that extinction (nonreward) has emotional consequences.

Psychoanalysis was in part a product of a nineteenth- century interpretation of the Judeo-Christian ethic. The great regulator is the concept of unpleasure (Unlust); Eros joins the scenario decades later. At the heart of the theory lies the controlofunacceptableinstinctiveimpulsesthataretobecon- strained, channeled, coped with. Freud did not deny these impulses;hebroughtthemoutintotheopentobecontrolled— and even sometimes liberated. However at the base was sin- ning humanity, who could achieve pleasure mainly by avoid- ing unpleasure. Psychoanalytic theory therefore qualiﬁes as a conﬂict theory. I have chosen not to describe psychoanalytic theory in great detail for two reasons. First, as far as the main- stream of psychological theories of emotion is concerned, Freudhashadageneralratherthanspeciﬁcimpact.Second,as I have noted, all of psychoanalytic theory presents a general theory of emotion. To do justice to the theory in any detail would require a separate chapter.

However brieﬂy, it is not difﬁcult to characterize Freud’s theory as a conﬂict theory. In fact, it combines conﬂict

notions with Jamesian concerns. Curiously, after rejecting psychological theories and particularly the James-Lange the- ory of emotion, Freud characterizes affect, and speciﬁcally anxiety, by a formulation that is hardly different from James’s. Freud talks about speciﬁc feelings, such as unpleas- antness, efferent or discharge phenomena (primarily vis- ceral), and perception of these discharge phenomena (Freud, 1926/1975). However, in general, affect is seen as a result of the organism’s inability to discharge certain “instinctive reac- tions.” The best description of the psychoanalytic theory in terms of its conﬂict implications was presented by MacCurdy (1925). MacCurdy describes three stages that are implicit in the psychoanalytic theory of emotion. The ﬁrst, the arousal of energy (libido) in connection with some instinctual tendency; second, manifestations of this energy in behavior or con- scious thought if that tendency is blocked; and third, energy is manifested as felt emotion or affect if behavior and con- scious thoughts are blocked and inhibited.

Not unexpectedly, psychoanalytic notions have crept into many different contemporary theories. The most notable of these is probably that of Lazarus and his associates, men- tioned earlier, and their descriptions of coping mechanisms, related to the psychoanalytic concerns with symptoms, de- fense mechanisms, and similar adaptive reactions (Lazarus, Averill, & Opton, 1970).

This concludes our sampling of a history that is some 2,500 years old, that has tried to be scientiﬁc, and that has re- ﬂected modern culture and society for the past 100-plus years. What can one say about the possible future specula- tions about emotion that might arise from that past?