# Cognitive Neuroscience 61

region produce a correspondingly larger impairment. Thus, in all three species it has turned out that the brain is organized such that memory is a distinct and separate cognitive func- tion, which can be studied in isolation from perception and other intellectual abilities. Information is still accumulating about how memory is organized, what structures and connec- tions are involved, and what functions they support. The dis- ciplines of both psychology and neuroscience continue to contribute to this enterprise.

Roger Sperry was another key player in the origins of cog- nitive neuroscience. He received his doctorate in zoology at the University of Chicago and then joined Lashley for a year at Harvard and moved with Lashley to the Yerkes Primate Laboratory at Orange Park, where he stayed for some years. Sperry did his pioneering studies on the selective growth of brain connections during this time (see Sperry, 1951). Lashley was fascinated by the mind–brain issue—the brain substrates of consciousness (although he never wrote about it)—and often discussed this problem with his younger col- leagues at Orange Park (Sperry, personal communication). In more recent years, Sperry and his associates at the California Institute of Technology tackled the issue with a series of com- missurotomy patients—the human “split-brain” studies. This work proved to be extraordinary, perhaps the most important advance in the study of consciousness since the word itself was developed many thousands of years ago (Sperry, 1968). Another key origin of the modern ﬁeld of cognitive neuro- science is the study of humans with brain damage, as in Milner’s work on H. M. noted earlier. Other inﬂuential scien- tists in the development of this ﬁeld were Hans-Lukas Teuber and Brenda Milner. Karl Pribram also played a critical role. Teuber received his early training at the University of Basel, obtained his doctorate at Harvard, and studied with Karl Lashley. He became chairman of the psychology department at MIT in 1961. In the 1940s, he published an important se- ries of papers in collaboration with Bender and others on per- ceptual deﬁcits following penetrating gunshot wounds of the brain. Later he also investigated the effects of frontal lesions on complex performance in humans.

Brenda Milner received her undergraduate training at Cambridge; then after the war she came to Canada and stud- ied for her PhD at McGill University under Hebb’s supervi- sion. Hebb arranged for her to work with Wilder Penﬁeld’s neurosurgical patients at the Montreal Neurological Institute. Her work on temporal lobe removal in humans, including H. M., really began modern study of the memorial functions of the hippocampus (see earlier). She also collaborated on studies with Roger Sperry and with Karl Pribram.

Another very important inﬂuence in modern cognitive neuroscience comes from the Soviet scientist Alexander