# 308 Abnormal Psychology

drinks to augment depleted humors. It was generally believed that opposites are cures for opposites, hence cold packs and cooling drinks for fever, hot drinks and warm blankets for chills, herbal extracts with narcotic properties (such as opium) for agitation and excitement, and extracts with stimu- lating properties for lethargy. If a disease is caused by a morbid agent, the process of coction normally expels the morbid agent in the feces, urine, and sweat, and the physician helped by administering appropriate laxatives, diuretics, or sudoriﬁcs. Diet, exercise, and adequate sleep, subsumed undertheconceptof“regimen,”wasconsideredofparamount importance both in managing disease and maintaining both mental and physical health (Lloyd, 1978).

Theories that attributed psychopathology to the failure to use reason to control emotion, restrain impulse, and regulate conduct date back at least as far as Plato (428–348 B.C.). He is credited with having introduced the concept of the tripartite soul, which, elaborated by Aristotle, persisted for centuries. The function of the rational soul is to seek knowledge and truth; it is intended to govern the spirited soul (mediating sensation and movement), which in turn is intended to govern the appetitive soul (the nutritive and reproductive functions). Eros is the energetic force for all activity and, at its lowest level, is sexual desire. The rational soul can seek knowledge only if Eros is sublimated to higher ends (Plato, 1894a).

The soul, in this line of thinking, can become diseased as a result of bodily disease: “For where the acid and briny phlegm and other bitter and bilious humours wander about in the body, and . . . mingle their own vapours with the motions of the soul . . . they produce all sorts of diseases, and being carried to the three places of the soul, whichever they may severally assail, they create inﬁnite varieties of ill-temper and melancholy. . . .” In Plato’s view “excessive pains and plea- sures are justly to be regarded as the greatest disease to which the soul is liable . . .” and can cause madness (Plato, 1894b). The intensity of sexual drive can cause mental disorder in both men and women. The idea that sexual deprivation in females is the cause of “all varieties of disease” served down through the centuries to explain hysteria, accompanied by the assumption that hysteria can be cured by sexual intercourse. The view that the passions, or affective excitement (particu- larly that arising from the sexual passion), are a signiﬁcant cause of psychopathology ﬁrst described by Plato, was held until the nineteenth century and appears in Studies on Hyste- ria by Breuer and Freud (1895/1955).

As Rome became the center of power in the Mediter- ranean world, the various schools of Greek medicine gradu- ally transferred there from Alexandria. By the time the Roman empire had been established, Greek physicians dom- inated Roman medicine. Physicians separated into various

sects, each basing its system of treatment on a different aspect of Greek medical philosophy. Some physicians re- tained the theory of humors. The pneumatists believed that disturbed pneuma ﬂow in the body caused disease. The methodists, who based their theory on atomism, attributed disease to an abnormal constriction or relaxation of the solid particles of the body. The empirical school renounced theory in favor of devising treatments based on observation. The eclectics took whatever seemed useful to them from the other schools.

Aulus Cornelius Celsus, a ﬁrst century Roman writer, compiled an encyclopedia of which De Medicina, the portion on medicine, survives. The work largely derived from the Hippocratic Corpus. It was printed in 1478, translated into English in 1756, and was used by physicians as a medical text into the eighteenth century (Celsus, 1935).

Celsus made the usual distinction between insanity and the delirium of patients suffering from high fever. Some insane persons are sad, others hilarious; some are more read- ily controlled and rave in words only; others are rebellious and act with violence. Of the latter, some do harm only by impulse whereas others, although appearing sane, seize the occasion for mischief, and their insanity must be detected by the result of their acts. Patients should have pleasant sur- roundings, be provided with interesting but not overstimulat- ing diversions, and should not be left alone or among people whom they do not know. They should be agreed with, rather than opposed, with the object of turning their mind slowly and imperceptibly from irrational talk to something better. For insane persons duped by phantoms, Celsus recommended purging with black hellebore, a poisonous herb believed to purge black choler. Those who are hilarious should be given white hellebore (another poisonous herb) as an emetic. Mas- sage should be used sparingly with patients who are over- cheerful. Insane persons who are deceived by the mind may beneﬁt if forced by fear to consider what they are doing; for example starvation or ﬂogging might force the patient, little by little, to ﬁx his or her attention and learn. (Such treatments, we note, suggest modern methods of aversive conditioning and attempts to train attentional focusing.)

Galen of Pergamon (ca. A.D. 130–201) was considered the greatest of the eclecticist physicians. (We note that Hippocrates’ reputation is largely based on Galen’s frequent citations as the authority of his own views.) He integrated the doctrine of pneuma into an elaboration of the theory of four humors in which different diseases are caused by different imbalances of the normal equilibrium of the humors and their speciﬁc qualities (“dyscrasia”). Galen emphasized that be- cause individuals have characteristic patterns for metaboliz- ing the elements of food, they differ in temperament, which

accounts for individual differences in susceptibility to differ- ent kinds of disease. Temperament is evident in body type, and it follows that prognosis is improved if the body type is identiﬁed.

By Galen’s time the existence of nerves had been recog- nized. Herophilus (ca. 355–280 B.C.) and his contemporary Erasistratus (ca. 330–250 B.C.) had traced some of the nerves to the brain and concluded that nerves must provide the “con- duits” for the passage of pneuma to and from the brain, hence nerves must be hollow. They theorized that sensation occurs when pneuma that conveys impressions of the external world ﬂows through the nerves toward pneuma stored in the ventri- cles of the brain. The ﬂow outward from the brain is directed by the psyche through the nerves to various muscles, inﬂating them to initiate action. Galen developed the ﬁnal form of this doctrine to construct a theory of psychophysiology that in its general outline remained inﬂuential through the eighteenth century.

According to Galen, pneuma, the basic principle of life, and originates from the general “world spirit.” As pneuma ascends through the body to the brain it is progressively re- ﬁned into natural spirit, vital spirit, and animal spirit. The quality of pneuma could be adversely affected by a variety of agents, including “vicious humors,” toxins, poor diet, inade- quate sleep. Severe pain and, notably, excessive passions (such as sexual lust, rage, greed, grief, fear, and great joy) in- terfere with attention, memory, imagination and thought, and could eventuate in melancholy or mania. As had Plato and the Stoic philosophers before him, Galen viewed emotional states as a form of mental disorder, and commented that “the passions have increased in the souls of the majority of men to such a point that they are incurable diseases” (Jackson, 1969, p. 380). Hence a salubrious climate, proper diet, good diges- tion, adequate sleep, proper exercise, and freedom from per- turbation of the soul by the passions are essential to preserve health. Galen recommended that those with mental health disturbed by passions receive education designed to promote self-understanding, governance of the expression of the pas- sions, and capacity to delay acting when in a passionate state in order to reﬂect and choose a rational course of action. Such education ideally should be provided by a mature man, him- self free from passion.

Galen identiﬁed three types of melancholia: one in which the brain is directly affected by overheated blood and black bile, one in which the brain is secondarily affected by blood corrupted by black bile throughout the whole body, and one (“hypochondriasis”), in which the brain is secondarily af- fected by black bile in the abdominal organs (the hypochon- drium), particularly in the stomach, which Galen believed to be intimately connected to the brain. Hypochondriasis is