# 348 Clinical Psychology

During the 1970s, the APA was forced to become deﬁni- tive about what constituted a psychological training program. This came about when graduates of guidance or counseling or sundry other programs demanded to be certiﬁed or licensed as psychologists and brought suit if their qualiﬁcations were questioned. They asserted, unfortunately correctly, that the courses that went into a psychology education were unspeci- ﬁed. Therefore, the APA made it known that as of 1980 all graduate programs in psychology must require courses in the history and systems of psychology; the biological, social, developmental, and learned bases of behavior; and statistics and research design. Moreover, clinical students were also required to have instruction in psychological assessment and intervention, individual differences and psychopathology, practicum training, and a 1-year full-time internship.

So, what does all this suggest, aside from more regulation and speciﬁcation than anyone would have thought possible or desirable a few years before? First, clinical psychologists were increasing their numbers and becoming a dominant force within American psychology and perhaps elsewhere as well. They were evident in Canada, the United Kingdom, and Scandinavia. Norway, for instance, was training about 100 psychologists a year at the doctoral level. These countries, unlike the United States, had publicly supported health sys- tems, which were major employers of clinical psychologists. Although the United States has continued to emphasize a rather lengthy, and somewhat indeﬁnite, period of graduate education leading to the doctorate for clinical psychologists, a variety of other models exist elsewhere. In the United Kingdom, a 3-year program leading to a doctor of clinical psychology degree (D.Clin.Psy.) has emerged. In Germany, Hungary, Mexico, and Spain, the PhD is usually reserved for academiciansand/orresearchers;practitionersofclinicalpsy- chology study in undergraduate-graduate programs lasting up to 6 years, perhaps supplemented by postgraduate training in psychoanalysis or behavior therapy (Donn, Routh, & Lunt, 2000). Believing that it was about time that the largest psychological ﬁeld of specialization had its own international organization, Routh (1998) and colleagues founded the Inter- national Society of Clinical Psychology in 1998. This organi- zation holds its meetings with various larger international groups, such as the InternationalAssociation ofApplied Psy- chology, the International Council of Psychologists, the Inter- national Union of Psychological Science, or the European Federation of Professional PsychologyAssociations. (See the chapter by David & Buchanan in this volume for a full de- scription of the international contacts in psychology.)

Second, with increasing numbers come divisions and splits. When there are few psychologists, the interests of one or two can be regarded as idiosyncrasies. When there are

thousands of psychologists, the interests of 1% or 2% may constitute the beginning of a new ﬁeld of specialization or a new social grouping. APA membership has increased from about 7,250 in 1950 to 16,644 in 1959 to 30,830 in 1970 to 50,933 in 1980 to about 150,000 in 2000. At one time, a school psychologist was a clinical psychologist who worked in a school setting, but eventually school psychology became a ﬁeld of specialization in its own right (Fagan, 1996, and the chapter by Fagan in this volume). Similarly there are more and more areas of specialization within clinical psychology that could become separate ﬁelds, such as clinical neuropsy- chology, clinical child psychology, and health psychology. This differentiation is probably inevitable, but it is not with- out the possible consequence of fostering less unity among clinicians unless care is taken to ensure cohesiveness.

Third, there has been an increasing professionalization within clinical psychology. Until World War II, very few clinical psychologists were involved in private practice. The role of the clinician changed from one of diagnosis and re- search to diagnosis, treatment, and research. Correspond- ingly, along the way from its inception in 1892, the APA’s aim—“to advance psychology as a science”—has changed: “to advance psychology as a science and as a means of pro- moting human welfare” and “to advance psychology as a sci- ence, as a profession, and as a means of promoting human welfare.” As this is being written, the APA membership is being polled on whether “health” should be inserted into the aim of the association. Since many psychologists who ob- jected to the growing professional interests of the APA left it in 1989 to form a more exclusively scientiﬁc American Psy- chological Society and since clinical psychologists constitute more than half the APA membership, the professionalization of the APA is not likely to be reversed. (See the chapter by Benjamin, DeLeon, Freedheim, & VandenBos and the chap- ter by Pickren & Fowler, both in this volume.) A concern here is that clinicians not become divorced from their scien- tiﬁc roots and function.

Treatment interventions can serve to illustrate much of what we have discussed, and it is to that topic that we turn.