# A Sustaining Zeitgeist

Bronner, Shepherd Franz (one of the ﬁrst clinical neuropsy- chologists), Henry Goddard, and Edgar Doll (1920). The as- sociation soon began publication of a journal, The American Journal of Orthopsychiatry, which still focuses on interdisci- plinary research and advocacy regarding the mental health problems of children and families.

John B. Watson returned from service in World War I and set about to determine what unconditioned stimuli produce what unconditioned emotional responses in infants. He was particularly interested in fear and was aware that Freud (1909/1959) had presented a case of a boy who had a phobia of horses, which through analysis was discovered to be a fear of his father.Watson found that loud noises and sudden loss of support elicit fear in infants and that by pairing a loud noise with a white rat, a fear response could not only be conditioned to the rodent but could be generalized to other furry objects (Watson & Raynor, 1920). Unfortunately the infant, Albert, became unavailable for Watson to extinguish the response. However, Mary Cover Jones (1924), subsequently a promi- nent developmental psychologist, did demonstrate that a child’s fear of rabbits could be reconditioned by bringing a rabbit closer and closer while the boy ate lunch. Here was ev- idence, Watson believed, to suggest that some irrational fears in children might be brought about and treated through condi- tioning and without any need to invoke unconscious conﬂicts. Nevertheless, psychoanalytic concepts were winning the day. They were gaining in popularity among mental health professionals.MortonPrincewasmovedtoremark:“Freudian psychology had ﬂooded the ﬁeld like a full rising tide and the rest of us were left submerged like clams in the sands at low water” (quoted by Hale, 1971, p. 434). In 1924, William Alanson White, then president of the American Psychiatric Association, urged psychiatrists to incorporate psychoana- lytic concepts into their thinking and to use analysis to gain fresh insights into mental illness. Psychologists were im- pressed not only by Freud’s ideas but by the ideas of those who disagreed with Freud, such as Alfred Adler and his no- tions about the signiﬁcance of birth order and the inferiority complex, and Carl Jung and his introvert/extrovert personal- ity types. Moreover, there were new tests of personality, like the Rorschach and the TAT, which relied upon an apprecia- tion and an understanding of unconscious functioning to be administered and interpreted. Further, there began to be a new way of looking at neurosis, as illustrated in the analyst Karen Horney’s (1937) book, The Neurotic Personality of Our Time. Neuroses, Horney argued, are brought about by disturbances in interpersonal relations, and their symptoms are determined by their culture and period. The conditions that existed for Freud differ from those that are current. Were we to analyze our culture, we would ﬁnd different kinds of

343