---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0a64dcbce8fe9dd01d7684795663a971f2e87c73
title: untitled
---
# 466 Undergraduate Education

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1824). At the University of Virginia,

Jefferson’seightschools—ancientlanguages,modernlanguages, mathematics, natural philosophy, natural history, anatomy and medicine, moral philosophy, and law—plus the three schools of commerce, manufacture, and diplomacy, which were missing only because of lack of funds—constituted a design for a univer- sityatatimewhenthecountryhadnotyetcometogripswithwhat a college was. (Rudolph, 1977, p. 81)

Such innovation was counterbalanced by staunch efforts to maintain a uniform, classical course of study as espoused in the Yale Report of 1828. In the post-Jacksonian era, higher education languished with declining enrollments; the Civil War brought some of the oldest and most distinguished insti- tutions (e.g., The College of William and Mary) to the brink of economic bankruptcy. Then, as Rudolph’s analysis sug- gests, complex external forces in American society produced positive internal effects on the institutions.

Veysey (1973) described the period from 1870 to 1910 as the most revolutionary time for American higher education, the fruit of which was the establishment of almost all of the principles and processes that remain today. He attributed change to three catalytic, often competing forces: the utilitar- ian needs of American society “to educate a democracy of talents and a democracy of vocations” (as cited in Rudolph, 1977, p. 111), the advent of science and an increasing respect for empirical evidence in the construction and applications of knowledge, and a widespread belief in the virtues of liberal education in creating a responsible citizenry. The ﬁrst force was exempliﬁed in the Morrill Land-Grant Act of 1862 and its effect on creating state universities and a broader under- standing of the academic curriculum. The second force was illustrated in the acceptance of the German university as a model for the American research university with its emphasis on graduate training and increased specialization in under- graduate education. The third force was embodied in the 1904 Wisconsin Idea, which linked universities to their state and local communities through extension education and what could be described as distance learning programs before the advent of technology.

Inside institutions, undergraduate programs included com- mon general-education courses and the selection of special- ized concentrations of study (the Johns Hopkins 1877–1878 catalog used the term major for the ﬁrst time). For faculty, an increased emphasis on research fostered professional associa- tions through which scholars shared their ﬁndings and built the theoretical and methodological knowledge bases of new intellectualﬁelds(disciplines);insidetheinstitution,common intellectual pursuits led to administrative units (departments) organized around the disciplines. Established in 1892, the

American Psychological Association (APA) was “one of seven learned societies founded at the turn of the twentieth century (Modern Language Association in 1883; American HistoricalAssociationin1884;AmericanEconomicsAssocia- tion in 1884; American Philosophical Association in 1901; American Political Science Association in 1904; and Ameri- can Sociological Society in 1905)” (McGovern, 1992a, p. 14). During this period, higher education was in transition, and psychologywasbothabeneﬁciaryofandacatalystforchange. After World War II, another period of change from 1945 to 1975 was prompted by variations of the same three forces operating from 1870 to 1910. The GI Bill of Rights was a utilitarian initiative that brought a whole new generation of students into higher education and prompted further expan- sion of the curriculum. The American political response to Sputnik in 1957 and the pervasive fear of Soviet technologi- cal advantage resulted in increases in research funding for science that affected graduate and undergraduate education. Finally, student protests of the 1960s questioned the nature, forms, and relevance of a liberal education to solve complex social problems. Once again, psychology was a principal beneﬁciary of these changes taking place on the broader American higher education landscape, as we will describe in the next section on curricular expansion.

In the 1980s and 1990s, the public became increasingly critical of the academy. Numerous blue-ribbon committees of faculty and administrators highlighted the loss of clear pur- pose in general education, lowered student expectations and involvement in learning (Study Group on the Conditions of Excellence in American Higher Education, 1984), the lack of coherence in the curriculum (Project on Liberal Learning, Study-in-Depth, and the Arts and Sciences Major, 1991a, 1991b, 1992; Project on Redeﬁning the Meaning and Purpose of Baccalaureate Degrees, 1985; Zemsky, 1989), and the challenges of integrating new knowledge and new voices into the curriculum (Schmitz, 1992). State legislatures questioned the spiraling costs of higher education and what they per- ceived as the lower productivity of faculty, especially a decreased commitment to undergraduate teaching. Some states called for major changes in faculty personnel contracts, including the elimination of academic tenure. Internally, Boyer’s (1990) Scholarship Reconsidered prompted broad discussion of the relationships among faculty teaching, re- search, and service activities. Moreover, the utilitarian demands of society at large again provoked conversations about technology, distance learning, and even the value to employers and society of the baccalaureate degree.

In the next sections, we describe how psychologists responded to these external forces affecting the public’s perceptions of higher education, as well as the forces within the discipline that motivated evolving deﬁnitions of the

curriculum, its pedagogy, and the roles of its faculty. As Hilgard, Leary, and McGuire (1991) noted, “traditional his- tory of science focused primarily on the so-called internal de- velopment of scientiﬁc thought and procedure—how one idea andmethodledtootherideasandmethodsinmoreorlesspro- gressive fashion” (p. 91). These authors contrast such a tradi- tional historiography with a social history-of-ideas approach (e.g., Ash, 1983) and the new critical history approaches (e.g., Furumoto, 1989).AsAsh noted, “the emergence of both scientiﬁc ideas and scientiﬁc roles is a complex process of so- cial construction, embedded not only in tradition of thought but also in speciﬁc sociocultural contexts” (p. 179). Thus, we examine external demands for accountability by society (e.g., state legislatures or accrediting groups) as just as impor- tant a catalyst for change as the internal predilections for reﬂection and evaluation by departmental faculties. The cur- riculum should be understood not only as a reﬂection of the best that psychological science had to offer undergraduates but also as a self-legitimizing strategy to preserve intra- and interinstitutional standing in the higher education community.
