---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7bd7d3a80ed3095b4f905988a736b89af881d68b
title: untitled
---
# Sentence Completion Methods

Sentence completion methods of assessing personality and psychopathology originated in the earliest efforts to develop tests of intelligence. Herman Ebbinghaus (1897), the pioneer- ing ﬁgure in formal study of human memory, developed a sentence completion test for the purpose of measuring intel- lectual capacity and reasoning ability in children, and Binet and Simon included a version of Ebbinghaus’ sentence com- pletion task in their original 1905 scale. Sentence comple- tions have been retained in the Stanford-Binet, and a variety of sentence completion tasks have also found use to the pre- sent day as achievement test measures of language skills.

The extension of the sentence completion method to as- sess personality as well as intellectual functioning was stimulated by Carl Jung (1916), the well-known Swiss psy- choanalyst and one-time close colleague of Freud who founded his own school of thought, known as “analytic psy- chology,” and whose writings popularized his use of a “word association” technique for studying underlying aspects of a person’s inner life. This technique was formalized in the United States by Grace Kent and Aaron Rosanoff (1910), who developed a standard 100-item list called the Free Asso- ciation Test and compiled frequency tables for different kinds of responses given by a sample of 1,000 nonpatient adults. The apparent richness of word association tasks in reveal- ing personality characteristics suggested to many assessors that replacing the word-word format with full sentences writ- ten as completions to brief phrases (e.g., “I like . . .”; “My worst fear is . . .”) would result in an even more informative assessment instrument. Numerous sentence completion tests were constructed during the 1920s and 1930s and used for a variety of purposes, but with little systematic effort or stan- dardization. The ﬁrst carefully constructed and validated measure of this kind was developed in the late 1930s by Amanda Rohde and, like other performance-based tests of personality, was intended to “reveal latent needs, sentiments, feelings, and attitudes which subjects would be unwilling or

unable to recognize or to express in direct communication” (Rohde, 1946, p. 170). The Rohde Sentence Completion Test served as a model for many similar instruments developed subsequently, and, as described by Rohde (1948), use of those that were available during the 1940s was stimulated by the impact of World War II. It has already been noted that the impetus for designing performance-based personality assessment instruments was largely intellectual curiosity rather than civilian or military needs, and such was the case with sentence completion tests. However, as a brief self- administered measure that provided relatively unstructured assessment of personality characteristics, the sentence com- pletion was found to be extremely helpful in evaluating and planning treatment for the vast number of psychological ca- sualties seen in military installations during the war and cared for in its aftermath in Veterans Administrations Hospitals.

For many years, the best known and most widely used sentence completion has been the Rotter Incomplete Sen- tences Blank (RISB), which was developed by Julian Rotter in the late 1940s and ﬁrst published in 1950, and for which adult, college, and high school forms are available (Rotter, Lah, & Rafferty, 1992). The authors provide a scoring system for the RISB that yields an overall adjustment score, but in practice the instrument is most commonly interpreted by the inspection method that characterizes the typical application of picture-story and ﬁgure-drawing instruments; that is, ex- aminers read the content of the items and form impressions of what respondents’ completions might signify concerning their personality characteristics. Beyond published studies demonstrating modest validity of the RISB as a measure of adjustment, there has been little accumulation of empirical evidence to support inferring any speciﬁc personality charac- teristics from it, nor has there been much progress in docu- menting the reliability of RISB ﬁndings and establishing normative standards for them.
