# 116 Cognition and Learning

taken for granted. The Way of Ideas assumes with common sense that there is a world outside consciousness. However, through a penetrating analysis of visual perception, Berkeley challenged that assumption. The world of consciousness is three dimensional, possessing height, width, and depth. How- ever, Berkeley pointed out, visual perception begins with a ﬂat, two-dimensional image on the retina, having only height and width. Thus, as someone leaves us, we experience her as getting farther away, while on the retina there is only an image getting smaller and smaller.

Berkeley argued that the third dimension of depth was a secondary sense property, a subjective construction of the Cartesian Theater. We infer the distance of objects from in- formation on the retina (such as linear perspective) and from bodily feedback about the operations of our eyes. Painters use the ﬁrst kind of cues on canvases to create illusions of depth. So far, Berkeley acted as a psychologist proposing a theory about visual perception. However, he went on to de- velop a striking philosophical position called immaterialism. Depth is not only an illusion when it’s on canvas, it’s an il- lusion on the retina, too. Visual experience is, in fact, two dimensional, and the third dimension is a psychological con- struction out of bits and pieces of experience assembled by us into the familiar three-dimensional world of consciousness. Belief in an external world depends upon belief in three- dimensional space, and Berkeley reached the breathtaking conclusion that there is no world of physical objects at all, only the world of ideas. Breathtaking Berkeley’s conclusion may be, but it rests on hardheaded reasoning. Our belief that objects exist independently of our experience of them—that my car continues to exist when I’m indoors—is an act of faith. Jean Piaget and other cognitive developmentalists later extensively studied how children develop belief in the per- manence of physical objects. This act of faith is regularly conﬁrmed, but Berkeley said we have no knockdown proof that the world exists outside the Cartesian Theater. We see here the paranoid tendency of modern thought, the tendency to be skeptical about every belief, no matter how innocent— true—it may seem, and in Berkeley we see how this tendency depends upon psychological notions about the mind.

Skepticism was developed further by David Hume (1711–1776), one of the most important modern thinkers, and his skeptical philosophy began with psychology: “[A]ll the sciences have a relation . . . to human nature,” and the only foundation “upon which they can stand” is the “science of human nature.” Hume drew out the skeptical implications of the Way of Ideas by relentlessly applying empiricism to every commonsense belief. The world with which we are ac- quainted is world of ideas, and the mental force of association

holds ideas together. In the world of ideas, we may conceive of things that do not actually exist but are combinations of simpler ideas that the mind combines on its own. Thus, the chimerical unicorn is only an idea, being a combination of two other ideas that do correspond to objects, the idea of a horse and the idea of a horn. Likewise, God is a chimerical idea, composed out of ideas about omniscience, omnipo- tence, and paternal love. The self, too, dissolves in Hume’s inquiry. He went looking for the self and could ﬁnd in con- sciousness nothing that was not a sensation of the world or the body. A good empiricist, Hume thus concluded that be- cause it cannot be observed, the self is a sort of psychological chimera, though he remained uncertain how it was con- structed. Hume expunged the soul in the Cartesian Theater, leaving its screen as the only psychological reality.

Hume built up a powerful theory of the mechanics of cog- nition based on association of ideas. The notion that the mind has a natural tendency to link certain ideas together is a very old one, dating back to Aristotle’s speculations about human memory. The term “association of ideas” was coined by Locke, who recognized its existence but viewed it as a bale- ful force that threatened to replace rational, logical, trains of thought with nonrational ones. Hume, however, made associ- ation into the “gravity” of the mind, as supreme in the mental world as Newton’s gravity was in the physical one. Hume proposed three laws that governed how associations formed: the law of similarity (an idea presented to the mind automat- ically conjures up ideas that resemble it); the law of contigu- ity (ideas presented to the mind together become linked, so that if one is presented later, the other will automatically be brought to consciousness), and the law of causality (causes make us automatically think of their effects; effects make us automatically think of their causes).After Hume, the concept of association of ideas would gain ground, becoming a dom- inant force in much of philosophy and psychology until the last quarter of the twentieth century. Various philosophers, especially in Britain, developed rival theories of association, adumbrating various different laws of associative learning. The physician David Hartley (1705–1757) speculated about the possible neural substrates of association formation. Associative theory entered psychology with the work of Ebbinghaus (see below).

Human psychology seemed to make scientiﬁc knowledge unjustiﬁable.Ourideaofcausality—abasictenetofscience— is chimerical. We do not see causes themselves, only regular sequences of events, to which we add a subjective feeling, the feeling of a necessary connection between an effect and its cause. More generally, any universal assertion such as “All swans are white” cannot be proved, because they have only

been conﬁrmed by experience so far. We might one day ﬁnd that some swans are black (they live in New Zealand). To critics,Humehadreachedthealarmingconclusionthatwecan knownothingforcertainbeyondtheimmediatecontentofour conscious sensations. Science, religion, and morality were all thrown in doubt, because all assert theses or depend on as- sumptions going beyond experience and which may therefore some day prove erroneous. Hume was untroubled by this conclusion, anticipating later postevolutionary pragmatism. Beliefs formed by the human mind are not provable by ratio- nal argument, Hume said, but they are reasonable and useful, aiding us mightily in everyday life. Other thinkers, however, were convinced that philosophy had taken a wrong turn.