---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4904da2bb593789117916c4cad37ef64516d267b
title: untitled
---
# Figure 6.1 Four Epistemologies.

some way get beyond appearances to an enduring realm of Truth.

The ﬁrst relativists were the Greek Sophists. They treated the distinction between Appearance and Reality as insur- mountable, concluding that what people call truth necessarily depends on their own personal and social circumstances. Thus, the Greek way of life seems best to Greeks, while the Egyptian way of life seems best to Egyptians. Because there is no ﬁxed, transcendental Reality, or, more modestly, no transcendental Reality accessible to us, we must learn to live with Appearances, taking things as they seem to be, abandon- ing the goal of perfect Knowledge. The Sophists’relaxed rel- ativism has the virtue of encouraging toleration: Other people are not wicked or deluded because they adhere to different gods than we do, they simply have different opinions than we do. On the other hand, such relativism can lead to anarchy or tyranny by suggesting that because no belief is better than any other, disputes can be settled only by the exercise of power.

Socrates, who refused to abandon truth as his and human- ity’s proper goal, roundly attacked the Sophists. Socrates believed the Sophists were morally dangerous. According to their relativism, Truth could not speak to power because there are no Truths except what people think is true, and human thought is ordinarily biased by unexamined presuppositions that he aimed to reveal. Socrates spent his life searching for compelling and universal moral truths. His method was to searchingly examine the prevailing moral beliefs of young Athenians, especially beliefs held by Sophists and their aris- tocratic students. He was easily able to show that conven- tional moral beliefs were wanting, but he did not offer any replacements, leaving his students in his own mental state of aporia, or enlightened ignorance. Socrates taught that there are moral truths transcending personal opinion and social convention and that it is possible for us to know them be- cause they were innate in every human being and could be made conscious by his innovative philosophical dialogue, the elenchus. He rightly called himself truth’s midwife, not its expositor. Ironically, in the end Socrates’ social impact was the same as the Sophists’. Because he taught no explicit moral code, many Athenians thought Socrates was a Sophist, and they convicted him for corrupting the youth of Athens, prompting his suicide.

For us, two features of Socrates’quest are important. Pre- Socratic inquiry into cognition had centered on how we per- ceive and know particular objects, such as cats and dogs or trees and rocks. Socrates shifted the inquiry to a higher plane, onto the search for general, universal truths that collect many individual things under one concept. Thus, while we readily see that returning a borrowed pencil and founding a democ-
