# Confrontations and Change

directors of ABPsi. They were well-prepared with the clear facts about racism in psychology and with speciﬁc demands for changes in APA and for changes in admissions policies in colleges and universities that had long excluded African Americans and other minorities. (The long-time exclusion of women from psychology training was to assume a major focus a year later.)

The APA board expressed general support for the issues raised by ABPsi but argued that it could not dictate to educa- tional institutions, and that changes inAPAgovernance would require by-law changes voted on by the membership. Mem- bers of ABPsi were impatient with what they saw as conven- tional stalling tactics. By the end of the day, it was agreed that APA would host a “conference on recruitment of black and other minority students and faculty” at the APA headquarters building in Washington, DC. The conference was held April 18to20,1969.TheAPAboardnominatedninewhitemalepar- ticipants and ABPsi nominated eight black male participants (mostly from black colleges and universities) and Ernestine Thomas (who was active in helping organize the Black Stu- dent Psychological Association and who was administrative ofﬁce manager at the psychology department at Case Western Reserve University where I was then Chair).

Also invited to the conference (that I chaired) were men from the Behavioral Science Training Branch of the National Institute of Mental Health and male resource people from APA’s Ofﬁce of Educational Affairs and Executive Ofﬁce. (See Albee, G. W., 1969, for a complete list of participants and a detailed report on the Conference.) The council was urged, along with APAboards and committees to “expand op- portunities for black and other minority group students and faculty to enter the mainstream of psychology.” Advice was offered to the Conference of Graduate Department Chairmen [sic], and to other APA groups like the Committee on Sub- doctoral Education in Psychology. Looking back with the wisdom of hindsight, the recommendations seem mostly bland. Among the concrete results were ensuring that there be nondiscrimination in APA Central Ofﬁce hiring and stafﬁng, and that a new Central Ofﬁce position be created with a focus on relating psychology and social problems, especially including racism.

The report of this Conference was published in the American Psychologist in August, 1969 just before the con- vention in Washington, DC. Then things exploded! For the ﬁrst time in its 77-year history, APA meetings were physi- cally disrupted. A group of black graduate students appeared in force at George Miller’s presidential address, prepared to demonstrate. After negotiation, they agreed to leave in ex- change for an invitation to present their case to the APAcoun- cil the following day.

487