# THE SCIENCE OF ILLUSION

While Müller is best known to psychologists for his work on speciﬁc nerve energies, he is also an important contributor to philosophical shift in thinking that resulted in the deﬁnition of psychology as a separate science by inﬂuencing its founder. In 1826 Müller published two books, the ﬁrst on physiology and the second the phenomenology of vision. This second volume contained discussions of a number of phenomena that Müller called visual illusions. These visual illusions were not the distortions in two-dimensional line drawings that we tend to use the label for today; rather, they were such things as afterimages and phantom limbs. Müller also included the fact that the impression of white may be produced by mixing any wavelength of light with its comple- ment and the resulting percept contains no evidence of the in- dividual components as another form of illusion. In other words, he was fascinated by the fact that there were some sit- uations in which the conscious percept does not correspond with the external situation as deﬁned by physical measure- ments. Müller’s book posed some questions that would re- main unanswered during his lifetime but would lead to a burst of empirical work a quarter of a century later.

In 1855, Oppel published three papers in which he in- cluded a number of size distortions that could be seen in ﬁg- ures consisting of lines drawn on paper. In his ﬁrst paper, he noted a distortion that was small in magnitude but quite reli- able and could be induced by lines drawn on paper. It appears in drawings such as that in Figure 5.2A and involves the per- ception that the upper divided extent appears to be slightly longer than the lower undivided space. By the third paper, he had developed more powerful distortions such as that shown in Figure 5.2C. Here the vertical line seems considerably longer than the horizontal line, and this apparent difference in length is usually in excess of 15 percent. Oppel cited Müller, crediting him with sparking the interest in this type of illu- sory phenomenon. Oppel was certainly not the ﬁrst to recog- nize visual illusions as instances of noncorrespondence be- tween perception and reality. Remember that Ptolemy, for example, had extensively discussed the moon illusion. Other researchers had noticed that the scale or shape of common