# PHYSICS AND VISUAL PERCEPTION

The understanding of sensory events involves an understand- ing of physics. We rely on physics to deﬁne stimuli such as the electromagnetic radiation that we register as light, the mechanical vibrations that we call sound, the mechanical forces that result in touch, and so forth. The scientiﬁc contri- butions to our understanding of perception begins with physics, or at least with a protophysics, in which the only measurement instruments available were the eyes, ears, nose, and touch senses of the scientist. Since we learn about the world through the use of our senses, this inevitably leads to a belief that the world is what we perceive it to be—an idea that would ultimately come to be abandoned when it became clear that correspondence between percept and reality is not guaranteed.

The philosopher-scientists of earlier ages held a presump- tionconsistentwiththefactthatourfaithintheaccuracyofour perception seems to be built into the very fabric of our lives as evidenced by homilies such as “Seeing is believing.” Lucretius (ca. 98–55 B.C.), the Roman philosopher and poet known for his postulation of purely natural causes for earthly phenomenaandwhotriedtoprovethatfearofthesupernatural is consequently without reasonable foundation, stated this ar- ticle of faith when he asked, “What can give us surer knowl- edge than our senses? With what else can we distinguish the trueformfromthefalse?”Thus,weseethingsashavingacolor because they are colored. We perceive that a person is larger than a cat because people are larger than cats, and so forth.

Thus,takinganinventoryofoursensoryexperienceisequiva- lent to taking an inventory of the state of the world. Since the main tool of the physicist was his own sensory apparatus, we ﬁndchaptersofphysicsbooksareentitled“light”and“sound,” which are sensory terms, rather than “electromagnetic wave phenomena” and “the propagation and properties of mechani- cal and pressure variations in an elastic medium.”

You can see how far this attitude of belief in sensory data went by considering the medieval opinions about the use of eyeglasses. In the twelfth and thirteenth century, the art of grinding lenses was widely known. It was Roger Bacon (1220–1292) who, in 1266, ﬁrst thought of using these lenses as an aid to vision by holding or ﬁxing them in front of the eye to form spectacles. Such eyeglasses were in relatively common use during succeeding centuries; however, you will ﬁnd little mention of these aids to vision in scientiﬁc works until the sixteenth century. The principle reason for this ab- sence appears to be condemnation of their use on theoretical grounds. Since lenses distort the appearance of objects, they can be seen as creating illusions. This means that the use of eyeglasses can only lead to deception.

However mistaken this condemnation appears, it clearly reﬂects the concern of the medieval physicists and natural scientists that our vision must remain unmodiﬁed by any in- strument if we are to obtain an accurate picture of the world. Before this negative view of the use of eyeglasses would be abandoned, the optics of refraction, which is common to both external glass lenses and the internal lens of the eye, would have to be recognized. Only then would there be acceptance that one was indeed correcting the inadequacy of internal physiological optics by the addition of those of the glass that the world was viewed through rather than distorting the sem- blance of the percept to the outside reality. It would be Galileo Galilei (1564–1642) who would eventually settle the issue. He inverted the reasoning of the medieval critics of eyeglasses by demonstrating that reality can be better known by images seen through a telescope (another combination of glass lenses) rather than by images seen through the naked eye. In this belief he is actually exhibiting the metaphysic be- hind the scientiﬁc revolution. In essence, this metaphysic is that it often takes more than just an observer’s eye to know the nature of the external reality.

It may be useful to expand a bit on the optical issues asso- ciated with vision, since it is here that we can see that physics and physiology had a difﬁcult time making their inﬂuence felt on the study of perception. In so doing we may also see just how clever, if still wrong, some of the early theories of vision were.

It all begins with a few simple observations. First, it is im- mediately obvious that the eye is the organ of sight; hence,

any information pertaining to vision must enter the eye. Yet this leads us to an immediate paradox. How can I see objects in their correct size with this organ? Obviously some aspect of the perceived object must enter the eye. Classical theories asserted that multiple copies of the object (the eidolas that Locke spoke of) detach themselves, ﬂying in all directions and entering the eye if it is looking in the right direction. Each eidolon is a perfect copy of the whole entity that pro- duced it, since the external world is composed of entities that are perceived as wholes. It is in this way that the eye, and more importantly the sensorium, or perceiving mind that is behind the eye, gains knowledge of the object. Herein lies a problem. The commonly asked critical question is, How is it that an eidolon as large as that which you might get from a soldier, or even of a whole army, can enter through the pupil of the eye, which may be only 3 or 4 millimeters in diameter? In a manner that is all too common in scientiﬁc theorizing, these early perceptual theorists simply assumed the ﬁnal out- come and postulated anything that might be needed to make the conscious percept correspond to the external reality. The presumed answer is that the eidolon shrinks to a size appro- priate for entering the pupil as it approaches the eye. The problem with simple presumption is that it rapidly leads to complications or contradictions. If the eidolon from an object is only a short distance from the eye, it must shrink very quickly in comparison to the eidola from farther objects, which must shrink at a slower rate to arrive at the eye the same size as all of the other eidola from similarly sized ob- jects. This means that each copy of the object must know its destination prior to its arrival at the eye in order to shrink at the rate appropriate for entering the pupil. Even if we suppose that the shrinkage works, we are now left with the question of how the mind gains information about the true size and dis- tance of objects. Remember that all of the shrunken eidola entering the pupil from all objects must be the same size to pass through the pupillary aperture. Thus, both a nearby sol- dier and a distant army must be 3 millimeters or less in size to enter a 3-millimeter-diameter pupil. This means that the re- ceived copy of the object contains no information about the actual size of the original objects from which they emanated. In the absence of a knowledge of optics, and given the numerous difﬁculties associated with this reception theory of vision, an alternate theory took the ﬁeld and held sway for mil- lennia. To understand this theory, consider the way in which we learn the size and shape of things by touch alone. To tactu- ally perceive the size and shape of a piece of furniture if I am blind folded or in the dark, I simply reach out with my hands and palpate it. Running my ﬁngers over the surface gives me its shape; the size of the angle between my outstretched arms as I touch the outermost boundaries gives me its size, even