---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 34eccb8381744b4f6a89156da05b8c21d1b027eb
title: untitled
---
# 426 School Psychology

(e.g., neuropsychological and cognitive theories). Skinnerian behaviorism, traceable to the inﬂuences of Thorndike and Watson in child study many decades before, had a strong im- pact on school psychology. Its offshoot, cognitive behavior modiﬁcation, found even greater acceptance by emphasizing cognitive interactional variables of the child and the environ- ment. Broader forms of theoretical application, including reciprocal determinism, constructivist developmental psy- chology, and ecological psychology, seemed well established by the turn of the twenty-ﬁrst century. School psychologists, supported by the work of other pupil personnel special- ists (e.g., guidance counselors, speech and language clini- cians, social workers) were conducting more comprehensive assessments that were better connected to interventions than observed in the Hybrid Years.

The “gatekeeper” perception had been countered by team approaches, especially prereferral approaches, and by the persistent indication that school psychologists were spend- ing at least 25% to 40% of their time in consultation and in- tervention roles. These results reveal an expansion of the consultation and intervention roles from data earlier in the period (Farling & Hoedt, 1971). Part of this expansion seems attributable to the widespread concern for “at-risk” students during this period as opposed to the long-standing concern for students suspected of being eligible for special education. At-risk students (e.g., those living in poverty or single-parent homes, students with pregnancy, substance abuse) demanded nontraditional school psychological services, including con- sultation and interventions with students and educators in the regular education program. Another factor was the necessity for crisis intervention skills that developed rapidly in the 1990s in response to a series of school violence incidents across the country. Thus, since 1970, broader roles for many school psychologists developed despite continued and persis- tent demand for the traditional roles associated with special education services.
