# STANLEY SUE

During the mid-1960s to the early 1970s, I was a graduate stu- dentatUCLAintentonbecomingaclinicalpsychologisttreat- ing patients with schizophrenia.At this time, I was exposed to the civil rights movement and protests against the Vietnam War. My consciousness was raised over the injustices and op- pression faced by African Americans, Latinos, and Native Americans. The ideas of Martin Luther King, Caesar Chavez, and Malcolm X were provocative and challenging. With re- specttoAsianAmericans,notmuchwasknownaboutthepop- ulation. The prevailing belief was thatAsianAmericans were successful in education and occupational status, relatively unobtrusive, and free of problems. Yet, many of us who were familiar withAsianAmericans felt that most of the issues and problemsbesettingotherethnicgroupswereapplicable.Asian Americans had suffered the same kinds of historical and con- temporary mistreatment as other groups (e.g., discriminatory laws, hate crimes, inability to become citizens). Other Asian American students complained of ethnic identity conﬂicts, feelings of marginality, and difﬁculties in adjustment.

It was during the last two years of my graduate work that I became interested in the psychological study of Asian Amer- icans and other ethnic minority groups. I began to read the works of Gordon Allport, Tom Pettigrew, and Kenneth Clark because there was little literature on Asian Americans. What really peaked my interest in Asian Americans was Harry Kitano’s article (1969) on Japanese American mental illness. The effect of this article on me was profound. I was able to re- late personally to the cultural analysis, the reluctance ofAsian

Americans to use mental health services, and the problems in the delivery of effective services.Although other psychologi- cal research has stimulated me either intellectually or person- ally, Kitano’s article did both. I felt that I could contribute something to this area of research and began my career at the Psychology Department at the University of Washington.

It was not easy to conduct research on Asian Americans. One major problem was the lack of other Asian Americans in the ﬁeld of psychology and of researchers interested in this population. For example, I was told that in 1971, I was the only tenure track Chinese American faculty in an APA ac- credited clinical psychology program in the United States. Collegial support and stimulation from other researchers or from other Asian Americans were largely unavailable. Unlike today, APA conventions did not involve many ethnic minori- ties in general or Asian Americans in particular.

Those of us interested in Asian American research tried to collaborate with other ethnic minority scholars. I was able to work with Carolyn Attneave, Guy Seymour, Amado Padilla, and Art Ruiz, to name a few. The alliances with other ethnic scholars were very important in helping to forge collaborative relationshipsandfriendships.Wewereabletodeﬁneethnicis- suesandtoﬁndcommonalityanddifferencesintheissuesfac- ingAsianAmericans as opposed to other ethnic groups.

Fortunately, my brother Derald, who was also a psycholo- gist, had similar research interests. We could test ideas out on each other, and my ﬁrst publication was a coauthored paper (Sue & Sue, 1971). At the University of Washington, where I

spent the ﬁrst 10 years of my academic career, the director of the Clinical Psychology Program, Ned Wagner, encouraged me to conduct research on Asian Americans. This encourage- ment was critical because in the early 1970s, it was not alto- gether clear that academic careers could be built on the study of Asian Americans.

Was the study of Asian Americans “legitimate”? Research on Asian Americans is based on a population rather than a phenomenon or psychological process, such as learning, mem- ory, schizophrenia, or marital interactions. Furthermore, eth- nic research has also been characterized as being political, applied, or pejorative rather than scientiﬁc in nature. Although many of us approached the work as scientists and advocates, it was difﬁcult to convince some researchers that ethnic re- search was within the domain of science. Additional research problems that we encountered included the relatively small numbers of Asian Americans and the diversity within Asian American groups, which made it difﬁcult to ﬁnd adequate samples on which to base studies. We were also uncertain about the validity of many research instruments because they had not been validated on an Asian American population.