---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d49399f8c3f20bbbc73edb7871a9c7e745d9b89a
title: untitled
---
# BIOLOGICAL BASES OF INTELLIGENCE

Some theorists have argued that notions of intelligence should be based on biological notions, and usually, on scien- tiﬁc knowledge about the brain. The idea here is that the base of intelligence is in the brain and that behavior is interesting in large part as it elucidates the functioning of the brain.

One of the earlier theories of brain function was proposed by Halstead (1951). Halstead suggested four biologically based abilities: (a) the integrative ﬁeld factor (C), (b) the ab- straction factor (A), (c) the power factor (P), and (d) the directional factor (D). Halstead attributed all four of these abilities primarily to the cortex of the frontal lobes. Hal- stead’s theory became the basis for a test of cognitive func- tioning, including intellectual aspects (the Halstead-Reitan Neuropsychological Test Battery).

A more inﬂuential theory, perhaps, has been that of Donald Hebb (1949). Hebb suggested the necessity of dis- tinguishing among different intelligences. Intelligence A is innate potential. It is biologically determined and represents the capacity for development. Hebb described it as “the pos- session of a good brain and a good neural metabolism” (p.294).IntelligenceBisthefunctioningofthebraininwhich development has occurred. It represents an average level of performance by a person who is partially grown. Although some inference is necessary in determining either intelli- gence, Hebb suggested that inferences about intelligence A are far less direct than inferences about intelligence B. A fur- ther distinction could be made with regard to Intelligence C, which is the score one obtains on an intelligence test. This intelligence is Boring’s intelligence as the tests test it.

A theory with an even greater impact on the ﬁeld of intel- ligence research is that of the Russian psychologistAlexander Luria (1973, 1980). Luria believed that the brain is a highly differentiated system whose parts are responsible for differ- ent aspects of a uniﬁed whole. In other words, separate corti- cal regions act together to produce thoughts and actions of various kinds. Luria (1980) suggested that the brain com- prises three main units. The ﬁrst, a unit of arousal, includes the brain stem and midbrain structures. Included within this ﬁrst unit are the medulla, reticular activating system, pons, thalamus, and hypothalamus. The second unit of the brain is a sensori-input unit, which includes the temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes. The third unit includes the frontal cortex, which is involved in organization and planning. It comprises cortical structures anterior to the central sulcus.

The most active research program based on Luria’s the- ory has been that of J. P. Das and his colleagues (e.g., Das, Kirby, & Jarman, 1979; Das, Naglieri, & Kirby, 1994; Naglieri & Das, 1990, 1997). The theory as they conceive of it is referred to as PASS theory, referring to planning, atten- tion, simultaneous processing, and successive processing. The idea is that intelligence requires the ability to plan and to pay attention. It also requires the ability to attend simultane- ously to many aspects of a stimulus, such as a picture, or, in some cases, to process stimuli sequentially, as when one memorizes a string of digits to remember a telephone num- ber. Other research and tests also have been based on Luria’s theory (e.g., Kaufman & Kaufman, 1983).

An entirely different approach to understanding intellec- tual abilities has emphasized the analysis of hemispheric spe- cialization in the brain. This work goes back to a ﬁnding of an obscure country doctor in France, Marc Dax, who in 1836 presented a little-noticed paper to a medical society meeting in Montpelier. Dax had treated a number of patients suffer- ing from loss of speech as a result of brain damage. The
