---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3e9660417b8b0cb3027eff4a74a8f4343b5b0fc1
title: untitled
---
## World War I and the Growth of Psychological Practice 33

emergency meeting of the APA Council called for the end of April. At that meeting, Yerkes established a dozen com- mittees that were charged with pursuing various roles for psychologists within the war effort. Only two of those really materialized. One involved a testing program of nearly two million military recruits, headed by Yerkes, that developed group intelligence tests, namely the Army Alpha and Army Beta. The second program was headed by Walter Dill Scott, who used his experience in developing job selection tests to assess the job skills of more than three million military per- sonnel, a task accomplished by his staff’s development of more than 100 separate selection instruments in a little more than 12 months.After the war, Scott was awarded the Distin- guished Service Medal by the U.S. Army for this monumen- tally successful program. He was the only psychologist to be so honored in World War I (Napoli, 1981).

The exact number of American psychologists who partic- ipated in the war is not known, but the ﬁgure is likely be- tween 250 and 300, counting those who served as consultants as well as those in uniform. Toward the end of the war, some were stationed at the 40 U.S. Army hospitals, where their assignments brought them into direct contact with issues of psychopathology. One example was Harry Hollingworth (1880–1956), a faculty member on leave from Barnard College who, as a captain in the army, was working at the army hospital in Plattsburgh, New York, examining approxi- mately 1,200 soldiers suffering from “shell shock” and other psychological disorders. Based on those experiences, Hollingworth wrote a book entitled The Psychology of Func- tional Neuroses (1920). Although Hollingworth was not led into clinical psychology by his wartime experiences, other psychologists were.

All of the activities of psychologists during the war are far beyond the scope of this chapter. What is important to em- phasize, though, is that the war efforts by psychologists had important implications for the public and for the discipline of psychology. The work of psychologists, especially in selec- tion, was seen by the government and the public as a program of considerable success. Such favorable press brought many consulting opportunities to psychologists after the war, and psychologists were quick to take advantage of such applied opportunities. For example, Scott founded The Scott Com- pany, a consulting ﬁrm of psychologists based in Pittsburgh, to do contract work for businesses and government agencies. Further, the war work convinced psychologists of the value of their science, that is, that they had something signif- icant to offer in the public sector that was grounded in fact, not myth. This newly gained disciplinary awareness for psy- chologists, the public’s perception of the value of psychology as demonstrated by success in the war work, the growing
