---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 49f4b3ee0e06493349fbf0195d90413ff37c25d7
title: untitled
---
# 96 Sensation and Perception

The groundwork for saving the speciﬁc nerve energy the- ory had already been laid before the theory was announced. It appeared in a paper by Thomas Young (1773–1829), which went relatively unnoticed until it was rediscovered by Helmholtz. Young is best known for his linguistic research, particularly on the Egyptian hieroglyphs, and this included his work on translating the Rosetta Stone. However, when he accepted election into the Royal Society, instead of speaking about his linguistic and archaeological studies, he gave a paper on the perception of color in 1801. In it, he proposed that although there is a myriad of perceivable colors, it is pos- sible to conceive that they all might be composed of mixtures of three different primaries. He speculated that these would be red, blue, and yellow, since artists are capable of mixing most colors using paints of only these hues. By extension, the visual system could do the same with three separate sets of speciﬁc neural channels, one for each of the primary colors. He had no empirical support for his speculations, however, and reasoned mostly from the artistic analogy.

Helmholtzhadindependentlyreachedthesameconclusion that only three primaries, hence three speciﬁc nerve energies, would be required. He would, however, modify the primaries tored,blue,andgreen.Helmholtzbasedhisselectiononsome color-mixture studies conducted by another brilliant physi- cist, James Clerk Maxwell (1831–1879). Maxwell is best known for having demonstrated that light is an electromag- netic wave and for developing the fundamental equations de- scribing electrical and magnetic forces and ﬁelds. This led to some of the major innovations made in physics in the twenti- eth century, including Einstein’s special theory of relativity and quantum theory. Maxwell’s color-mixture data was not based on the mixture of pigments that artists use, since such subtractive mixtures are often difﬁcult to control and analyze. Instead, he used colored lights, generated by capturing small regions of a spectrum generated by passing sunlight through prisms and blocking off all but a small section.These additive mixtures are easier to control and to analyze.

Maxwell eventually “proved” the adequacy of three color primaries for full color perception in 1861. This was done by producing the ﬁrst color photograph. Maxwell took a picture of a Scotch tartan–plaid ribbon using red, green, and blue ﬁl- ters to expose three separate frames of ﬁlm. He then projected the images through the appropriate ﬁlters to recombine them to form the perception of a true colored image. This set the stage for color photography, color television, and color print- ing while at the same time demonstrating that three primaries would sufﬁce to produce the full range of colors that humans can see.

Helmholtz next suggested that the speciﬁcity need not ac- tually be in the nerves that are doing the conducting. All

nerves might be equivalent as information channels; how- ever, there might be speciﬁc receptors at the ﬁrst stage of input that are tuned for speciﬁc sensory qualities. We now know that this was a correct assumption and that there are three cones with differential tuning to short wavelengths (blue), medium (green), and long wavelengths (red). This has been conﬁrmed using microelectrode recording and also by using microspectroscopy and directly determining the ab- sorption spectra of individual cones.

Helmholtz also recognized that in some modalities, such as hearing, the idea of only a few speciﬁc channels to carry the various sensory dimensions might not work. Certainly at the phenomenological level it is difﬁcult to reduce the audi- tory sense to a small number of primary qualities. He thus suggested that further processing might be required at inter- mediate stages along the sensory pathways, and perhaps there may be speciﬁc centers in the brain that might selectively re- spond to speciﬁc sensory qualities. The ﬁrst theory to formal- ize the idea of preprocessing sensory information to reduce the number of channels needed actually came from Hering, Helmholtz’s major academic opponent. Ewald Hering (1834–1918) was a physiologist who would also go on to be known for his work in establishing the role the vagus nerve plays in breathing. Hering approached questions of percep- tion from the point of view of a phenomenologist. This is, perhaps, not surprising, because he succeeded Johannes E. Purkinje (1787–1869), who was probably the best-known phenomenologist of his time. In addition to his work in microscopy, Purkinje is also known for his discovery of the wavelength-dependent brightness shifts that occur as the eye goes from a light to a dark adapted state (now called the Purkinje shift). This set of observations suggested to Purkinje that there might be two separate receptors in the eye, with different photic sensitivity. His speculation was eventu- ally proven by discovery of rods and cones and the demon- stration, by Max Johann Sigizmund Scultze (1825–1874), that rods functioned in low-light-level vision and cones in bright light.

Hering was himself a ﬁne analytic phenomenologist like his predecessor Purkinje. He was not completely satisﬁed with the idea of three primaries as being sufﬁcient to explain the phenomenon of color vision. It seemed to him, rather, that human observers acted as if there were four, rather than three, primary colors. For instance, when observers are presented with a large number of color samples and asked to pick out those that appear to be pure (deﬁned as not showing any trace of being a mixture of colors), they tend to pick out four, rather than three, colors. These unique colors almost always include a red, a green, and a blue, as the Helmholtz-Young trichro- matic theory predicts; however, they also include a yellow.

Hering also noted that observers never report certain color combinations, such as yellowish blue or a greenish red. This led him to suggest some hypothetical neural processes in which the four primaries were arranged in opposing pairs. One aspect of this opponent process would signal the pres- ence of red versus green, and a separate opponent process would signal blue versus yellow. An example of such a process could be a single neuron whose activity rate in- creased with the presence of one color (red) and decreased in the presence of its opponent color (green). Since the cell’s ac- tivity cannot increase and decrease simultaneously, one could never have a reddish green. Adifferent opponent-process cell might respond similarly to blue and yellow. A third unit was suggested to account for brightness perception. This was called a black-white opponent process, after the fact that black and white are treated psychologically as if they were “pure colors.” Evidence from colored afterimages seemed to support this theory.

One might have expected that Hering’s notions would be met with enthusiasm, since the opponent-process concept would allow alternate forms of qualitative information to travel down the same pathway (e.g., red and/or green color), thus reducing the number of neural channels required to en- code color from three under the trichromatic theory to two. Yet this idea was extremely unpopular. It appeared uncon- vincing because the theory was purely speculative, with only phenomenological evidence from a set of “illusions,” namely afterimages and color contrast, to support it, and no proven physiological processes that demonstrated the re- quired mode of operation. Furthermore, even as neuro- physiology became more advanced in the early part of the twentieth century, the theory did not seem appealing, since it seemed to ﬂy in the face of the newly discovered all-or-none neural response pattern. It implied some form of neural al- gebra, where responses are added to or subtracted from one another. Additive neural effects could easily be accepted; however, subtractive effects were as yet unknown.

The ﬁrst hints that some neural activity could have sub- tractive or inhibitory effects came from the phenomenologi- cal data and an application of mathematical reasoning by physicist and philosopher Ernst Mach (1838–1916). Mach was a systematic sensist in that he felt that science should restrict itself to the description of phenomena that could be perceived by the senses. His philosophical writings did much to free science from metaphysical concepts and helped to es- tablish a scientiﬁc methodology that paved the way for the theory of relativity. However, if the fate of science was to rest on the scientist’s sensory systems, it was important to under- stand how the senses function and what their limitations are. This led him into a study of brightness phenomena, particu-
