---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 86b0feb3602ca933e960c142ff6cd12a417521b5
title: untitled
---
# Frameworks for Studying Women and Gender

psychological inventories were constructed with masculinity and femininity as opposite ends of a single, bipolar contin- uum. The test format rendered them mutually exclusive. Con- stantinople argued against this built-in assumption, pointing out that an individual could embrace both masculine and fem- inine traits and behaviors. Going a step further, Sandra Bem (1974) argued that optimal psychological functioning and per- sonal adjustment required that an individual possess both masculine and feminine qualities, that is, embrace an androg- ynous sex-role identity. Bem designed the Bem Sex Role In- ventory, a scale of masculinity and femininity that permitted respondents to endorse both masculine and feminine attributes (or neither). Bem’s ideas, her inventory, and an alternate mea- sure of sex-related attributes, the Personal Attributes Ques- tionnaire (Spence & Helmreich, 1978) framed much feminist research, as well as feminist approaches to therapy, for the next several years.Although the ﬁeld has now moved beyond the conception of androgyny, the work in this era laid the foundation for subsequent theorizing on gender identity.

In the early 1980s, a new line of feminist inquiry emerged. Instead of pursuing comparisons of men and women, some researchers shifted their focus to women’s unique emotional capacities, identities, and relational needs. In a Different Voice (Gilligan, 1982) is a prominent example of this line of endeavor. By putting women at the center of inquiry, re- searchers could reexamine and reevaluate feminine qualities that had been ignored, disdained, or viewed as deﬁciencies or signs of immaturity. Gilligan’s initial investigations, for example, put forward the notion of a distinctive feminine mode of moral decision making, one that emphasized what she called an ethic of care.

Questions about male-female differences and similarities remain unresolved, even after many thousand empirical stud- ies. Hare-Mustin and Marecek (1990) used the terms alpha bias to indicate an inclination or tendency among some re- searchers to maximize differences and beta bias to indicate an inclination to minimize or overlook differences. They pointed out that the focus on gender-as-difference diverts at- tention away from a focus on gender as domination. That is, questions about the differences between men and women distract researchers from examining the power relations be- tween them and the way in which gender serves as a vehicle for distributing power and resources. In addition, the focus on male-female differences presumes that each gender is homogenous. It distracts attention from differences among women associated with ethnicity, class, age, and other social categories. It also distracts researchers from interrogating re- lations of power among women. Thus, Hare-Mustin and Marecek, as well as some other researchers, have called for feminist psychologists to lay aside the question of gender

253
