---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6f6b5b17f7b30941a01ce9a9002b10d8ca1ceb33
title: untitled
---
# E

Figure 5.1 A ﬁgure after the style of Euclid, but still in use today, where the drawn lines describing the visual angles AEB and CED were originally meant to represent emissions from the eye.

fram’d by Mathematicians, and by them introduced into Optics, that they might treat of that Science in a Geometrical way” (Berkeley, 1709).

The ﬁrst steps toward a more modern optics of vision comes from Alhazen (965–1040?), a scientist and natural philosopher who worked most of his life in Egypt and whose Arab name was Abu Ali al-Hasan ibn al-Haytham. He be- came fascinated by an illusion or failure of correspondence, namely the afterimages that one has after viewing bright ob- jects. The existence of this failure of correspondence caused him ultimately to reject the emission theory. The fact that a residual efﬁgy of an object remains after the object is re- moved, and even after the eyes were closed, suggested that this phenomenon was caused by light from the object having a persistent effect in the eye.

In the process of rejecting the emission theory, Alhazen modiﬁed the reception theory. Most importantly, he aban- doned the idea that whole copies of objects reach the eye, an idea that had persisted because when people viewed their world, their phenomenological impression was that they were viewing a set of whole objects. Instead, he claimed that light, conceived of as a stream of minute particles, is thrown off by illuminated objects and is disseminated in all direc- tions in straight lines. This light comes from each point on the object. Such tiny “point-eidola” would have no difﬁculties entering the pupil of the eye. It is here that he confronts the problem that frustrated those theorists who preceded him, namely that it seemed unnatural to assume that the copy of a uniﬁed entity should be broken up into pieces. If the

information coming from an object is actually decomposed into parts, how could it ever be put together again to recreate the whole? Furthermore, if so many of these points from so many points on the object entered the pupil simultaneously, it would be likely that they would mix in the eye and confuse the relation of one part to another. Alhazen solved this issue by the use of some information about refraction of light and a misinterpretation of anatomy that placed the crystalline lens of the eye in the center of the eye. According to this idea, the cornea and the lens of the eye effectively consist of concen- tric spherical surfaces, and only the projected rays of light that enter perpendicularly to these surfaces would be unbent by refraction. These rays produce a replicate image of the object according to the following logic. Of all the lines pro- jecting from any point on an object, only one will be perpen- dicular to the cornea (the front surface of the eye). Only this ray is seen, and since from each object point there is only one effective ray, the complete set of rays preserves the topo- graphic structure of their points of origin on the object.

Alhazen was basically a sensist in his approach, with the idea that we ought to be able to accurately perceive the world without the intervention of any higher, nonperceptual processes. This theoretical position was, however, impossible for object properties such as size, given the limited size of the ﬁnal image, and also for location, since obviously the image is ﬁxed at the location of the person’s retina. There- fore, Alhazen was forced to allow a mental process to inter- vene, and he suggested that it was the mind that assigned an appropriate size and location to the object based on its image. However, he balked at the issue of orientation. Based on his knowledge of optics, he knew that an image passing through a simple lens was inverted and left–right reversed. To avoid dealing with this problem, he simply presumed that the light’s ﬁnal image to be analyzed by the mind was formed up- right on the front surface of the crystalline lens of the eye. To ask a mental process to rotate the world 180 degrees plus cor- recting the left and right inversion of the image, and to do so instantaneously enough for us to coordinate properly in the world, was too much of leap of faith for him to accept.

Alhazen’s analysis of light into points would set the stage for Kepler’s correct description of the optics of the eye. Alhazen had failed when he had to deal with the inversion of the retinal image because he could not accept that much noncorrespondence between the input and the external world and others would show a similar weakness. Thus, Leonardo da Vinci (1452–1519), who was familiar with a pinhole ver- sion of the camera obscura and the inverted image that it casts on a screen, speaks in his ﬁfteenth-century Notebooks of the eye as the window to the soul. He and others resorted to an odd sort of physical optics to solve the problem. They

suggested that there must be a second inversion of the image in the eye, perhaps because the fundus or inside surface of the eye acts as a concave mirror that could then cast an up- right image on the rear surface of the lens.

Johannes Kepler (1571–1630) was the ﬁrst to describe the true nature of image formation in the eye in 1604. He depicted how a lens bends the multitude of rays approaching it from a point on one side of the lens in such a way that it causes the rays to converge and to meet in an approximation to a point on the other side of the lens. The order of object and image points is thus preserved, and an accurate, although inverted, image is formed of the object. By 1625, Scheiner would ver- ify Kepler’s theory. He removed the opaque layers at the back of a cow’s eye and viewed the actual picture formed on the retina and found that it was inverted. Others would repeat this experiment, including Descartes, who described the results in detail. Kepler was not unaware of the problems that the in- verted image had caused for previous theorists. However, he simply relegated its solution to what we would call physio- logical processing or psychological interpretation, much as Alhazen had relegated to the mind the assigning of size and location in space to objects some six centuries earlier.

An interesting example of how the study of physics be- came intertwined with the study of vision comes from Sir Isaac Newton (1642–1727). Newton, whose name is one of the most distinguished in the history of physics, had already started almost all of his important lines of thought before he was 30. During the short span of time from 1665 to 1666, while Newton was in his early 20s and was a student (but not yet a Fellow) at Trinity College in Cambridge University, he achieved the following ideas: (a) he discovered the binomial theorem; (b) he invented both differential and integral calcu- lus; (c) he conceived his theory of gravitation and applied it to the behavior of the moon; and (d) he purchased a glass prism at the Stourbridge Fair for the purpose of studying the refraction of light. It was this last item that would turn him into a perceptual researcher.

Newton began his study of the refraction of light by prisms in an attempt to improve the telescope. Descartes had already shown that spherical lenses, because of their shape, cause aberrations in image formation, namely colored fringes. Experimenting with prisms ﬁrst led Newton to the er- roneous conclusion that all glass has the same refracting power, which would mean that it would forever be impossi- ble to correct for this distortion. To get around this problem, he used the fact that there is no chromatic dispersion in re- ﬂected light. He therefore substituted a concave mirror for the lens and thus created the reﬂecting telescope. It was this invention that created his reputation and earned him an ap- pointment to the Royal Society.
