# 454 Health Psychology

hypertension, rheumatoid arthritis, and asthma. He believed that the repressed psychic energy could affect autonomic nervous system functioning directly, thus altering visceral functioning. For instance, in the case of an ulcer patient, the repressed emotions associated with a dependency conﬂict would increase the secretion of acid in the stomach, which would in time affect the stomach lining and ultimately pro- duce ulcers (Alexander, 1950).

In the United States, the work of Dunbar and her followers was seriously questioned in the 1950s at the same time that psychoanalysis was being criticized for its lack of scientiﬁc rigor. However, more scientiﬁc psychoanalytic/psychody- namic theories of psychosomatic illness were subsequently developed, as reﬂected in the work Sifneos and Nemiah on alexithymia (Nemiah, 1973; Sifneos, 1967) and the speciﬁc- attitudes theory developed by Graham and his colleagues (Graham, 1972; Graham, Stern, & Winokur, 1958). Indeed, the idea of a relationship between personality and physical ill- ness is present in current concepts such as Type A behavior patterns and Type C personality. Moreover, expansion of the ﬁeld was fostered by the strengthening of other conceptual models as well as the development of new ones that would drive health behavior research.

As noted above, the other early theoretical framework that contributed to the survival and expansion of the psycho- somatic movement was psychophysiology, an approach that provided more objective and scientiﬁc foundations for the development of the ﬁeld. Edmund Jacobson, a psycholo- gist and physician who had studied under James and Cannon at Harvard, examined the role of muscle tension in relaxation (Jacobson, 1938). He also developed progressive muscle relaxation, a behavioral intervention that is today referred to as the aspirin of behavioral medicine. In fact, by the 1950s the ﬁeld seemed dominated by a focus on stress and its relationship to health and bodily functioning. Hans Selyé (1953), a physiologist, popularized stress as a cause of illness.

In addition, Harold G. Wolff’s work on the psychology and physiology of gastric function (Wolf & Wolff, 1947) as well as his work on migraine, ulcer, colitis, and hypertension provided careful examination of the physiological changes associated with conscious emotional states such as anger and resentment. Wolff’s 1953 book, Stress and Disease, remains a classic. This psychophysiological approach marked the growth of experimentation and a departure from the study of unconscious processes and reliance on methods of clinical observation. The use of the term psychophysiological disor- ders also dates back to Wolff’s work and reﬂects an effort of the psychosomatic movement to dissociate itself from the psychodynamic orientation and move toward a more

cognitive behavioral framework that would characterize much of the future work on stress and disease.

By the 1950s, the speciﬁcity theories based on psychoan- alytic foundations also had serious competition from systems approaches. Guze, Matarazzo, and Saslow (1953) published a description of a biopsychosocial model as a blueprint for comprehensive medicine, a term more favored in some circles than the label psychosomatic. This model emphasized the interrelationships among, and mutually interacting effects of, multiple biological, psychological, and social processes. Later work by Engel (1977) and Leigh and Reiser (1980) has perhaps been more widely cited, but all were very similar attempts to provide a unitary framework for diagnoses and treatment of the full spectrum of health problems.

A number of other societies were developed in the mid- 1900s that reﬂected the expansion of interest in the psycho- somatic movement: the American Society of Psychosomatic Dentistry (1948), the Society for Psychosomatic Research in Great Britain (1960), and the Swiss Society of Psychoso- matic Medicine (1963).

As interest in stress and disease during the 1960s and 1970s grew, so did interest in coping—which in turn brought more attention to cognitive and behavioral efforts to manage stress. It was also recognized that illness was a part of life that no one could escape, and that illness itself was a stressor that required coping skills for adaptation. Coping was viewed as a complex process that included signiﬁcant cognitive, af- fective, behavioral, and social components. The development of the health-belief model also focused attention on cognitive components in health and disease and fostered the interface with public health perspectives (Rosenstock, 1966).

Concurrent with developments in stress and coping was the pioneering work of Neal E. Miller, whose theoretical and empirical work on the conditioning of physiological pro- cesses laid the scientiﬁc foundation for the development of biofeedback interventions for speciﬁc health problems (Miller, 1969). The application of operant learning theory to the management of chronic pain was initiated by Wilbert Fordyce, whose work became fundamental to the design of pain and chronic illness management programs for the rest of the century (Fordyce, 1976).

A serendipitous event occurred in 1974 that was also to shape future research and practice in the ﬁeld. Robert Ader, an experimental psychologist, noticed that some of his ani- mals died unexpectedly during a conditioning experiment. Through careful research, he subsequently determined that those deaths had been the result of a conditioned suppression of the immune system. As expected, this ﬁnding was greeted with much skepticism in the ﬁeld, but nevertheless it heralded the beginning of what Ader called psychoneuroimmunology,

an area of study that grew rapidly.As described by Levenson (1994), Ader himself was troubled by the fact that his initial work might have received attention in part because of his rep- utation as a very careful, conservative scientist. He wondered what would have happened if an unknown investigator had come to the same conclusions.

In 1977, a number of psychologists, physicians, and other behavioral scientists attended the Yale Conference on Behav- ioral Medicine to give support to the birth of a new interdis- ciplinary ﬁeld labeled behavioral medicine. Many of these attendees believed that as then conceptualized, psychoso- matic medicine did not clearly represent the thrust of current research and practice. Joined by others the next year at a con- ference at the National Academy of Sciences, they adopted the following deﬁnition for the new ﬁeld:

Behavioral medicine is the interdisciplinary ﬁeld concerned with the development and integration of behavioral and biomedical science knowledge and techniques relevant to health and illness and the application of this knowledge and these techniques to prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation. (Schwartz & Weiss, 1978)

By 1979, the explosion of research in health and behavior, and its practical signiﬁcance to medicine, was recognized by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) of the National Academy of Sciences. A committee was formed to review the ﬁeld and set a research agenda with psychiatrist David Hamburg as chairandpsychologistJudithRodinasvice-chair;overhalfthe membershipwerepsychologists.Thesubsequentreport(IOM, 1982) documented that 50% of mortality from the 10 leading causes of death could be traced to behavior. This effort, plus support from U.S. surgeon general Joseph Califano (Healthy People: The Surgeon General’s Report on Health Promotion and Disease Prevention, 1979), stimulated congressional in- terest and led to increased funding for NIH for research on be- havioral factors in disease prevention and health promotion. The zeitgeist transcended national boundaries. European health psychologists have made innovative and signiﬁcant contributions in a variety of areas, especially the relationships among personality, stress, and disease; the role of social cog- nition in health and illness behavior; and the development and outcome evaluation of health promotion programs in various contexts (school, work, and community). Other contri- butions of European health psychologists have been in mea- surement, both in developing new measures and in adapting and validating many English-language psychological instru- ments to various populations in each country. The cross- validation of measures in many cultural contexts has been an importantopportunityfortestingtheoryandrelatedconstructs