# SECOND-WAVE FEMINISM AND PSYCHOLOGY

Women in psychology who were committed to the ideals of equality between the sexes and solidarity among women started to mobilize near the end of the 1960s. Many had en- gaged in social activism—in the civil-rights movement, the antiwar movement, and the women’s liberation movement— in addition to their work as researchers, therapists, and teach- ers. Transformation of the structure of society and, more im- mediately, of the structure of the profession was on their horizon. For example, at the Employment Bureau of the 1970 American Psychological Association (APA) convention, a group of women protested rampant sexism in interviewing and hiring practices. Another early initiative of ﬂedgling fem- inist organizations in psychology was a push for blind review of scholarly work. In a blind review, an author’s identity is concealed from reviewers who are judging work submitted for publication or presentation, a procedure that limits the possibility that knowledge about the author’s identity will bias the judgments of the work under review. The policy of blind review was adopted by a number of journals; some still maintain it. Moreover, scholarly work on the topics of women and sexism was often regarded as trivial or “too po- litical” by psychologists. In response, feminists engaged in a number of projects aimed at challenging sexist ideology and practices in psychology. They produced documents that of- fered guidelines for nonsexist therapy, counseling, research, and language usage. They also mounted a campaign for amendments to the ethical code that would protect women in therapy and women students from sexual abuse and harassment.

At the same time as feminists were trying to change psy- chology as a whole, feminist psychology was coalescing as an independent ﬁeld. One way that this can be charted is to note the expansion of course offerings and textbooks. Before 1970, psychology departments offered virtually no courses on women or gender. Two decades later, an APA survey showed that 51 percent of U.S. psychology departments of- fered undergraduate courses on women and gender; 172 departments offered graduate courses (Women’s Programs Ofﬁce, 1991). There were no textbooks in the ﬁeld until 1971. By the end of the century, there were dozens, repre- senting varying points of view and emphases.

Although questions about sex differences and women’s psychology have been posed throughout the history of psy- chology, we argue that the study of women and gender as an organized ﬁeld of psychology extends back only to about 1970. Thus, the history that we recount is short relative to that of most other ﬁelds of psychology. The remainder of this chapter is devoted to describing the new ﬁeld of psychology

of women and gender. First, we take up research and scholar- ship on women and gender. Next, we consider the contribu- tions of feminist clinicians and clinical researchers. In both domains, efforts have been two-pronged. On the one hand, they involve critiques of conventional constructs, research methods, and practices. On the other hand, they involve the development of new forms of scholarship and practice that incorporate feminist insights and feminist values. In the third section, we describe some of the organizations, activities, and projects that have sustained and advanced the ﬁeld.

Our review covers only English-language work. It is cen- tered on the United States but includes developments in Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand as well. We focus on broad themes and not every individual contribution to the ﬁeld is mentioned.