---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6eec2ddbbae3de39eb0fc482744eb9d6a5a061ef
title: untitled
---
# 442 Community Psychology

conceptual model was the relationship between building skills and behavioral adjustment. They found SPS increased students’ social problem skills and behavioral adjustment independently. Weissberg et al. noted the importance of the ﬁndings and sought to encourage those factors in children that were found to mediate adjustment.

Through the availability of increased funding from both federal and private foundations, more investigators were able to launch prevention trials. One of the concepts that helped to bridge past research with the emphasis on prevention was the concept of social support (Barrera, 2000; Vaux, 1988). In early efforts at developing prevention services, psychologists realized that recipients of prevention efforts beneﬁted from the active presence and caring of others. Community psy- chologists became active contributors to this literature and helped to establish the constructs of social support, mutual help, and self-help as essential variables in prevention pro- gramming (Levy, 2000). Examples of this type of work were included in a 1991 special issue of the AJCP (Borkman, 1991). These contributions encouraged moving away from a disease orientation to analyses of factors contributing to indi- vidual positive health.

As mentioned earlier, Cowen has been a leading propo- nent for the concept of wellness as a way to build a scientiﬁc basis for discourse on and actions toward positive health (Cicchetti et al., 2000; Cowen, 2000b). In the most recent published literature relating to strengths and resources, Cowen (2000b) continued to assert psychological wellness as a primary focus for community psychologists, as he has over the past four decades. He discussed three main terms that have been used in connection with this concept, including competence, empowerment, and heightened resilience in children: “These phenotypically disparate concepts . . . ﬁnd genotypic synchrony in a framework in which routes to psy- chological wellness is the overarching phenomenon of inter- est” (p. 90). Cowen also advocated examining both the personal and environmental contributors to psychological wellness and discussed a number of sources of inﬂuence over people’s psychological wellness, including the family con- text, the child’s total educational experience, signiﬁcant so- cial settings and systems in which a person interacts, and the broad societal surround.

In the last two decades, community psychologists have developed multiple conceptions and highlighted various facets of the prevention perspective. In his 1980 presidential address to the Society for Community Research and Action (SCRA, Division 27 of the APA), Julian Rappaport pre- sented the concept of empowerment as an alternative to the traditional medical and disease orientation of prevention research (Rappaport, 1981; Zimmerman, 1990, 1995, 2000;

Zimmerman & Rappaport, 1988). Articulating an emerging mood, he questioned the clinical heritage of prevention and advocated for prevention work to be a community and en- abling enterprise, an enterprise consistent with the values expressed at Swampscott. Tableman (1989) emphasized the signiﬁcance of pragmatic processes of prevention programs in her Distinguished Practice Award address to SCRA in 1988. She challenged community psychologists to emphasize the long-term implementation of prevention programs and not just focus on the one-time demonstration of a particular project (Tableman, 1989).
