data/clean/untitled__chunk0583.md, before:

## SENSATION, PERCEPTION, REASON, AND COGNITION

The very ﬁrst hurdle that had to be faced in the study of sensation and perception involved the deﬁnition of these processes and a determination of how they ﬁt with other men- tal acts and processes. This is an issue that is fundamental; hence, it should not be surprising to ﬁnd that long before data had been collected, at least well before empirical data in the form that we understand it today was available for analysis, philosophers were raising questions about the role that per- ception played in our mental life. During the era when Greece was the world’s epicenter of intellectual activity, Greek writ- ers and philosophers fell into two schools. One, characterized clearly by Plato (ca. 428–348 B.C.), argued that we should talk of perceiving objects through the senses but with the mind. The basic notion is that sensory inputs are variable and inaccurate, and at best provide only an imperfect copy of the objects and relationships in the world. We are saved by the mind, or more speciﬁcally Reason (yes, with a capitol R, since Reason is treated by the Greeks much like an individual in its own right, with special abilities, consciousness, and its own motivational system). Reason or intellect has the job of correcting the inaccuracies of the senses and providing us with a true and correct picture of the world. We are aided in

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk0583.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 0e3feb267aba42489f8dd99881d434bec72de425
title: untitled
---
# THE PERCEPTUAL PROBLEM

We must begin our discussion with some philosophical con- siderations. This is not merely because all of science began as philosophy, nor because only 50 years ago philosophy and psychology departments were often combined as the same academic entity in many universities. The reason that we begin with philosophy is that one must ﬁrst understand that it takes a shift in philosophical viewpoint, away from our nor- mal naive realistic faith in the ability of our senses to convey a picture of the world to us, for the very basic question of why we need a psychological discipline to study sensation and

perception to become meaningful. To the proverbial “man on the street,” there is no perceptual problem. You open your eyes and the world is there. We perceive things the way we see them because that is the way they are. We see something as a triangular shape because it is triangular. We feel rough- ness through our sense of touch because the surface is rough. Thomas Reid summarized this idea in 1785 when he wrote

By all the laws of all nations, in the most solemn judicial trials, wherein men’s fortunes and lives are at stake, the sentence passes according to the testimony of eye or ear, witnesses of good credit. An upright judge will give fair hearing to every objection that can be made to the integrity of a witness, and allow it to be possible that he may be corrupted; but no judge will ever suppose that witnesses may be imposed upon by trusting to their eyes and ears. And if a sceptical counsel should plead against the testi- mony of the witnesses, that they had no other evidence for what they declared than the testimony of their eyes and ears, and that we ought not to put so much faith in our senses as to deprive men of life or fortune upon their testimony, surely no upright judge would admit a plea of this kind. I believe no counsel, however sceptical, ever dared to offer such an argument; and if it were of- fered, it would be rejected with disdain. (Essay 2, Chapter 5)

Unfortunately, the man on the street and Reid are both wrong, since perception is an act, and like all behavioral acts, it will have its limitations and will sometimes be in error. One need only look at the many varieties of visual-geometric illu- sions that introductory psychology textbooks delight in pre- senting to verify this. In these simple ﬁgures, you can see lines whose length or shape are systematically distorted and various element sizes and locations that are misconstrued in consciousness because of the effects of other lines drawn in near proximity to them. Such distortions are not artifacts of art or drawing. Even in nature there are perceptual distor- tions, illusions, and instances of noncorrespondence between the reality and the conscious perception. Take the size of the moon. Everyone has at some time or another experienced the moon illusion, where the moon on the horizon looks much larger than it does when it is high in the sky. Surely no one thinks that the moon really changes in size as it rises in the sky. That this is an illusion has long been known. In fact, Ptolemy (127–145) (whose Latin name in full was Claudius Ptolemaeus), the ancient astronomer, geographer, and mathe- matician who lived in Alexandria, devoted over one third of Book II of his Optics to the topic of “illusions.” He classiﬁed various systematic visual misperceptions under the headings of size, shape, movement, position, and color and included the moon illusion as one of these topics.

The issue of error and illusion will be a recurring theme, since only after the possibility of perceptual error is

recognized can the perceptual problem be deﬁned. At the ﬁrst level, the perceptual problem is simply the issue of how “what is out there” gets “in here,” or more formally, how do the objects, object properties, relationships between items, and the metric of space and time come to be represented in consciousness? At a second level, this problem may be ex- tended to pose the correspondence problem, which asks, “How accurate are these perceptions?” and “How well do they represent the external reality?” This is a fundamental issue that has nothing to do with simple sensory limitations. Obviously, in the absence of light we cannot expect the visual system to function, nor when the mechanical vibrations in the air are too weak do we expect the auditory system to register sounds. These situations, however, demonstrate limitations, which deﬁne the limits of the sensitivity of the sensory sys- tem and do not represent a failure of correspondence between perception and the external reality. However, once we allow for systematic distortions, where the perceived reality does not correspond to the physicist’s measured reality, the argu- ment for naive realism, that the eye merely “records” light and the ear simply “registers” sound, is no longer tenable. If illusion and distortion are possible, then the viewpoint that perception is a psychological act must be accepted.
