## Psychologists as Expert Witnesses: Historical Trends

It was not until 1921 that an American psychologist served as an expert witness in a criminal case. In State v. Driver, a West Virginia trial court qualiﬁed a psychologist as an expert on juvenile delinquency, although the court rejected his testi- mony, which was based on results of psychological tests. The ﬁrst psychologist to testify as an expert in a civil trial was Karl Marbe in Germany in 1922. Marbe discussed the result of reaction-time experiments in offering an opinion on the effect of alcohol on an engineer’s responsibility in a train wreck (Bartol & Bartol, 1999). As a rule, psychological ex- pert testimony was rejected in criminal cases involving the defendant’s mental state. The lone area in which psycholo- gists’observations seemed to be valued by the courts, even as far back as the early 1900s, was in the juvenile justice sys- tem; we will discuss this issue subsequently.

In the decade after World War I, the person most widely known in American psychology and law was probably William Marston, a student of Münsterberg’s who was ap- pointed professor of legal psychology at American Univer- sity in 1922. Marston, who had both a law degree and a PhD, initially discovered a relationship between systolic blood pressure and lying and subsequently developed the polygraph (e.g., Marston, 1917, 1925). An attempt to introduce expert

Early Attempts to Apply Psychological or Psychiatric Knowledge to the Legal System 397

testimony based on polygraph results in 1923 was rejected, and the decision by the District of Columbia Circuit Court in Frye v. United States produced the venerable “Frye test” for the admissibility of scientiﬁc expert testimony. The court ruled that the proposed testimony must represent a position that is generally accepted within the relevant scientiﬁc community.

Marston (1920) also studied reaction times as indicators of deception and reported that there was a type of person whose reaction times during deception were shorter than while telling the truth. Marston consulted with police and attorneys on such matters, leading Bartol and Bartol (1999) to suggest that he was one of the ﬁrst consultants to the criminal justice system, especially to law enforcement. Further, Marston (1924)conductedsomeoftheﬁrstresearchonthejurysystem. In this research, he studied reactions to eyewitness testimony by staging a series of events, after which witnesses reported theirmemoriesinfrontofmockjuriesunderconditionsoffree narration, direct examination, and cross-examination. In dis- cussing such research, Marston made a point that would still berelevanttoeyewitnessresearch75yearslater.Henotedthat “Experimentation upon the completeness and accuracy of testimony, and of the ﬁndings of fact which might be based upon the testimony, probably had its origin in an unconscious, scientiﬁc wish to prove that our present juristic system is incapable of achieving a decent degree of justice.” He added that “For such observations and reports, therefore, we must continue to depend upon human testimony. In light of this un- deniable conclusion, it seems to me that the most proﬁtable subjects of psychological discussion and experiment are to be found in the various possibilities of practical improvement in the elicitation and use of normal, average testimony, rather than in over-emphasizing its futility” (p. 29).

that “An important problem in psychology today is the legal status of the psychologist and his relationship to the courts. . . . The use of the expert witness is a fairly modern innovation in the ﬁeld of legal evidence” (McCary, 1956, p. 8). McCary supported moves toward the certiﬁcation or li- censing of psychologists, noting that “As long as any quack can call himself a psychologist there is going to be resistance to granting the mantle of the expert witness to psychologists as a class” (p. 12).

The caution with which many courts regarded psycholo- gists at the time may be illustrated by a 1955 decision of the Texas Court of Criminal of Appeals in Watson v. State. The judge wrote, “Apsychiatrist is certainly best qualiﬁed to pass upon a question of mental illness. However, we have consis- tently accepted the testimony of medical doctors as experts. We think that also of those qualiﬁed to give an opinion, supe- rior to that of a layman, would be a practicing psychologist” (p. 879). In addition to clinical psychologists making individ- ual clinical judgments, social psychologists in this period began to appear as experts in cases involving pretrial public- ity and civil rights (Greenberg, 1956; Loh, 1981).

The involvement of psychologists in the legal system had been only sporadic until the 1960s, when the social-political activism of the times, with its emphasis on “social relevance,” encouraged many psychologists to focus their research efforts on the legal system. Interest in conducting legally relevant re- search accelerated in the early 1970s, when it grew at an even greater pace; indeed, in 1981 Loh (1981, p. 327) asserted that since 1974, “there have been more psychologists doing more empirical research on law-related matters that in all the pre- ceding years combined.” The rate of law-related empirical research has not slowed in the ensuing decades.

As we have seen, psychologists began to appear in some western European courtrooms as expert witnesses at the beginning of the twentieth century. There was some use of psychologists as expert witnesses in the United States from 1921 to 1950; they testiﬁed mostly about cognitive processes involved in witness memory or the psychology of crime and criminal personality. The 1950s was labeled the “forensic stage” by Loh (1981), because there was a dramatic increase in the involvement of psychologists in the legal system, testi- fying as expert witnesses in civil rights cases, about mental disorders, and on the effects of pretrial publicity (Greenberg, 1956). The regular use of clinical psychologists as expert wit- nesses on individual assessments of issues such as compe- tency (to stand trial, to plead guilty, to waive rights), parental competency, insanity, child custody, and the like became commonplace only in the latter half of the twentieth century. In a 1956 American Psychologist article, McCary asserted

During this period, the scope of empirical inquiry ex- panded beyond the traditional areas of eyewitness testimony and evidence rules to encompass several ﬁelds relevant to procedural justice. Loh (1981) posited that there were four major areas: the effect of pretrial inﬂuences on the jury (e.g., pretrial publicity and pretrial identiﬁcations), selection of the jury, presentation of testimony and of the law to the jury (e.g., judicial instructions), and decision making by the jury.