# 104 Sensation and Perception

times a weight must be increased, for instance, before it equals another target weight, could serve as an objective measure of the subjective magnitude of the stimulus. Being a physicist gave him the mathematical skills needed to then add an inﬁnite number of these just noticeable differ- ences together, which in calculus involves the operation of integration. This resulted is what has come to be known as Fechner’s law, which can be stated in the form of an equation of S (cid:2) W log I, where S is the magnitude of the sensation, W is a constant which depends on the Weber fraction, and I is the intensity of the physical stimulus. Thus, as the magnitude of the physical stimulus increases arithmetically, the magni- tude of the perceived stimulus increases in a logarithmic manner. Phenomenologically this means that the magnitude of a stimulus change is perceived as being greater when the stimulus intensity is weak than that same magnitude of change is perceived when the starting stimulus is more in- tense. The logarithmic relationship between stimulus inten- sity and perceived stimulus magnitude is a better reﬂection of what people perceive than is a simple representation based on raw stimulus intensity; hence, there were many practical applications of this relationship. For instance, brightness measures, the density of photographic ﬁlters, and sound scales in decibels all use logarithmic scaling factors.

One thing that is often overlooked about Fechner’s work is that he spoke of two forms of psychophysics. Outer psy- chophysics was concerned with relationships between stim- uli and sensations, while inner psychophysics was concerned with the relationship between neural or brain activity and sensations. Unfortunately, as so often occurs in science, inner psychophysics, although crucial, was inaccessible to direct observation, which could create an insurmountable barrier to our understanding. To avoid this problem, Fechner hypothesized that measured brain activity and subjective perception were simply alternative ways of viewing the same phenomena. Thus, he hypothesized that the one realm of the psychological universe did not depend on the other in a cause-and-effect manner; rather, they accompanied each other and were complementary in the information they con- veyed about the universe. This allowed him to accept the thinking pattern of a physicist and argue that if he could mathematically describe the relationship between stimulus and sensation, he had effectively explained that relationship. Obviously, the nonlinearity between the change in the physical magnitude of the stimulus and the perceived magni- tude of the stimulus could have been viewed as a simple fail- ure in correspondence, or even as some form of illusion. Fechner, however, assumed that since the relationship was now predictable and describable, it should not be viewed as some form of illusion or distortion but simply as an accepted

fact of perception. Later researchers such as Stanley Smith Stevens (1906–1973) would modify the quantitative nature of the correspondence, suggesting that perceived stimulus in- tensities actually vary as a function of some power of the in- tensity of the physical stimulus, and that that exponent will vary as a function of the stimulus modality, the nature of the stimulus, and the conditions of observation. Once again the fact of noncorrespondence would be accepted as nonillusory simply because it could be mathematically described. Stevens did try to make some minimal suggestions about how variations in neural transduction might account for these quantitative relationships; however, even though these were not empirically well supported, he considered that his equa- tions “explained” the psychophysical situation adequately. While the classical psychophysicists were concerned with description and rarely worried about mechanism, some more modern researchers approached the question of correspon- dence with a mechanism in mind. For instance, Harry Helson (b. 1898) attempted to explain how context can affect judg- ments of sensation magnitudes. In Helson’s theory, an organ- ism’s sensory and perceptual systems are always adapting to the ever-changing physical environment. This process creates an adaptation level, a kind of internal reference level to which the magnitudes of all sensations are compared. Sensations with magnitudes below the adaptation level are perceived to be weak and sensations above it to be intense. Sensations at or near the adaptation level are perceived to be medium or neu- tral. The classical example of this involves three bowls of water, one warm, one cool, and one intermediate. If an indi- vidual puts one hand in the warm water and one in the cool water, after a short time both hands will feel as if they are in water that is neither warm nor cool, as the ambient tempera- ture of the water surrounding each hand becomes its adapta- tion level. However, next plunging both hands in the same bowl of intermediate temperature will cause the hand that was in warm to feel that the water in the bowl is cool and the hand that was in cool to feel that the same water is warm. This implies that all perceptions of sensation magnitude are relative. A sensation is not simply weak or intense; it is weak or intense compared to the adaptation level.

One clear outcome of the activity of psychophysicists was that it forced perceptual researchers to learn a bit of mathe- matics and to become more comfortable with mathematical manipulation. The consequence of this has been an accep- tance of more mathematically oriented methods and theories. One of these, namely signal detection theory, actually is the mathematical implementation of a real theory with a real hy- pothesized mechanism. Signal detection theory conceptual- ized stimulus reception as analogous to signal detection by a radio receiver, where there is noise or static constantly

present and the ﬁdelity of the instrument depends on its abil- ity to pick a signal out of the noisy environment. Researchers such as Swets, Tanner, and Birdsall (1961) noted that the sit- uation is similar in human signal reception; however, the noise that is present is noise in the neural channels against which increased activity due to a stimulus must be detected. Furthermore, decisional processes and expectations as well as neural noise will affect the likelihood that a stimulus will be detected. The mathematical model of this theory has re- sulted in the development of an important set of analytic tools and measures, such as d(cid:5) as a measure of sensitivity and (cid:6) as a measure of judgmental criterion or decision bias.

This same trend has also led to the acceptance of some complex mathematical descriptive systems that were offered without physical mechanisms in mind but involve reasoning from analogy using technological devices as a model. Con- current with the growth of devices for transmitting and pro- cessing information, a unifying theory known as information theory was developed and became the subject of intensive re- search. The theory was ﬁrst presented by electrical engineer Claude Elwood Shannon (b. 1916) working at the Bell Labs. In its broadest sense, he interpreted information as including the messages occurring in any of the standard commu- nications media, such as telephones, radio, television, and data-processing devices, but by analogy this could include messages carried by sensory systems and their ﬁnal interpre- tation in the brain. The chief concern of information theory was to discover mathematical laws governing systems de- signed to communicate or manipulate information. Its princi- pal application in perceptual research was to the problems of perceptual recognition and identiﬁcation. It has also proved useful in determining the upper bounds on what it is possible to discriminate in any sensory system (see Garner, 1962).