---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c22aeacfd65456582b62ae3ad5e67da83d81484d
title: untitled
---
## CLINICAL PRACTICE, COUNSELING, AND FEMINIST THERAPY

During the 1960s, the mental health professions came under strong criticism from various social movements, including the women’s movement. At that time, psychoanalytic theo- ries held sway among most psychotherapists, including most clinical psychologists. Feminists assailed these theories on a number of grounds. They charged that they restricted women to domestic roles; they established heterosexuality, marriage, and motherhood as criteria for normality and maturity; they reduced women’s ambitions and achievements to pathologi- cal expressions of penis envy; and they blamed a wide array of psychological problems and social ills on mothers. Mental health professionals claimed the authority of science to back their assertions about normality and abnormality, but femi- nists pointed out that these assertions often were based on cultural ideology.

One of the most powerful early critics was Naomi Weisstein, who took clinical and personality theories to task. “Psychology,” she said, “has nothing to say about what women really are like, what they need, and what they want, essentially because psychology does not know” (1971, pp. 207, 209). Another inﬂuential critique was that of Inge Broverman and her colleagues (Broverman, Broverman, Clarkson, Rosenkrantz & Vogel, 1970). Using an adjective checklist, they showed that the traits that therapists ascribed to the ideal man resembled those they ascribed to a mentally healthy person, while traits ascribed to the ideal woman resembled those ascribed to “a typical mental patient.” In

Women and Madness, Phyllis Chesler (1972) charged that the therapy professions placed women in a double bind: Women who violated norms of femininity were stigmatized, yet such norms (e.g., emotional expressiveness and dependence) were also used as indicators of mental disorders such as hysteria and dependent personality disorder.

Another concern feminists raised during the 1960s and 1970s was that men dominated the mental health ﬁeld. Men held most of the powerful positions in professional organiza- tions, educational institutions, and mental health research settings. Most clinical psychologists were men, yet most con- sumers of psychotherapy were women. Feminists charged that therapy relationships, which usually consisted of a male therapist and a female patient, replicated the cultural norm of male dominance and female subordination. Rather than help- ing women to move beyond passivity and dependence, such therapy perpetuated women’s reliance on men’s judgments of their normality and women’s dependence on male approval and validation. Feminists believed that if women shared con- trol of the ﬁeld and brought women-centered perspectives to clinical psychology, patterns of knowledge and clinical care for women would improve.

The early criticisms that feminists made touched off what became a sustained movement to reform knowledge and practice in clinical and counseling psychology. The concerns raised—that cultural biases permeate scientiﬁc constructs; that therapists too readily ignore the social context or under- estimate its inﬂuence; that sexism and other biases are embedded in diagnostic constructs and practices; that power differences in therapy can work against clients’interest—still thread through feminist clinical psychology today. In re- sponse to these concerns, feminists have developed alternate theories and conducted innovative research. They have also developed feminist-inspired therapies and diagnostic prac- tices. Feminists have also worked to improve the conditions of work for women who are therapists. They have addressed the rights of therapy clients and promoted changes in the APA ethical code in order to provide better protection for clients. The scope of feminist knowledge in clinical psychology is wide, and feminists have devised many approaches to under- standing and treating individual women and girls, heterosex- ual and same-sex couples and families, and men. There are three journals concerned with feminist practice and women-centered therapies: Women and Therapy, the Journal of Feminist Family Therapy, and Afﬁlia. In addition, Femi- nism and Psychology and Psychology of Women Quarterly frequently publish research on clinical disorders of women, such as eating disorders and depression, as well as on aspects of diagnosis and treatment. Researchers and practitioners have developed a sophisticated understanding of how gender

shapes stressful life experiences, patterns of distress and dys- function, and coping efforts. They have also examined prac- tices of diagnosis, assessment, and treatment (Worell & Remer, 1992).
