# Industrial-Organizational Psychology

trends in the ﬁeld are . . . increased use of personality measures, 360° feedback instruments, and expanding the work performance domain to include aspects of contextual performance such as cit- izenship behaviours. (Dunnette, 1998, pp. 129–130)

Along with the discipline’s successes, several criticisms have been made (e.g., Dunnette, 1966). Some I-O psycholo- gists believe that practice has outstripped research. Others state that too much attention has been given to precision and objectivity. Researchers disagree with respect to how to ana- lyze, deﬁne, measure, design, and evaluate research. Excess research has been conducted on predictors and validation techniques; a paucity of research exists on criteria. Theories, research methodologies, and data analyses are less applicable for dynamic issues and thus do not account for change. Few longitudinal studies have been conducted because they are cumbersome and expensive. A gap is increasing between I-O psychology and psychology (Highhouse & Zickar, 1997). In addition, progress has been slow because of reporting to peo- ple who are not in positions of authority (Locke, 2000) and being too close to the client (Baritz, 1960).

One speciﬁc criticism plaguing the discipline throughout its history is that I-O psychologists practice “dustbowl em- piricism,” which is the process of researching relationships between variables with scant or no attention to the logic or theory underlying those relationships. Landy (1997) noted, “As a sub-discipline, I/O psychologists have long had prob- lems with theory development” (p. 472). One explanation is that the ﬁeld’s primary focus during the early years was to de- velop solutions to practical problems to legitimize applied psychology (Dunnette, 1976). Dustbowl empiricism may have characterized the discipline in the early years, and some psychologists may continue to believe that theory and re- search have not progressed; however, since the 1960s, a stronger orientation toward theory development and theory- related research can be observed. One explanation is that I-O psychologists demonstrated their usefulness, so their time and energy could be directed toward theory (Katzell & Austin, 1992). Other explanations for strides in theory and re- search include (a) a growing distinction between science and practice, (b) an increased use of laboratory experiments because of academic pressures to publish, (c) the growth of organizational psychology that has a theoretical slant, and (d) unsupported theories that led to revised theories.