## Henry Murray’s Personology and the Study of Lives

Like Allport, Henry Murray (1893–1988) developed an ap- proach to personality that emphasized both the study of indi- vidual differences and the integrative understanding of individual persons. Also like Allport, Murray brought to per- sonality psychology interests, skills, and experiences drawn from a variety of other ﬁelds—perspectives that led him to emphasize the study of individuals. Indeed, for Murray, the study of individual life histories was the psychology of personality, or (as he preferred to call it) “personology” (1938, p. 4). (Although “personology,” either as a term or as a [sub]ﬁeld, has by and large not entered general use, there is a small “Society for Personology,” founded by Murray disci- ples, which is dedicated to the life history approach to the study of personality.)

medical school, his interest in case studies went well beyond what was required. For example, he wrote a thoroughly re- searched, formal medical history and an extensive narrative account (both unpublished) of the life and circumstances of a prostitute who was dying of syphilis (see F. G. Robinson, 1992, pp. 63–65).

Murray’s strong literary and artistic interests also rein- forced his emphasis on the study of individuals. Achance en- counter during an ocean voyage in 1924 led him to read Moby-Dick; thus began a lifetime’s passionate interest in the life and writings of Herman Melville (F. G. Robinson, 1992, pp. 81–82, 109–110, 133–140, and passim). Over the next six decades, Murray published an introduction to Melville’s Pierre as well as reviews of several books about Melville. An almost casual dinner-party discussion led Murray to buy Carl Jung’s recently published Psychological Types (1923/1971). Two years later, he visited Jung in Zurich, meet- ing and socializing daily for three weeks (F. G. Robinson, 1992). Thus began a fascination with “depth psychology” (Jung and Freud; also Otto Rank,AlfredAdler, and others; see Murray, 1938, pp. 24–25) that was decisive in leading him away from medicine and physiology to psychology as a life vocation. While Murray did not incorporate Jung’s speciﬁc types into his conceptual scheme of personality (Murray, 1938, pp. 238, 726–727), the concept of type, involving cate- gories of whole persons rather than tables of component “elements,”didcreateapath,forMurray(1955)andotherper- sonality psychologists, toward the study of molar units—that is, the whole lives of individual persons. By focusing on per- sons rather than variables, then, type is a quasi-dimensional, quantitative method that maintains the individual person perspective while also permitting comparison (Platt, 1992, describes sociologists’similar efforts to classify and compare cases). Jung’s typology is probably the best-known example, but from time to time other personality theorists have sug- gested typologies (for example, Freud, 1908/1959, on the anal charactertype,1916/1957b,oncharactertypes,1931/1961,on libidinal types; Rank, 1931/1936, on the “artist,” “neurotic,” and “average” types; and Block, 1971, on normal personality types).And although the concept of type is not currently fash- ionable in personality research, there are signs that its useful- ness is being recognized—or rediscovered (see Thorne & Gough, 1991;York & John, 1992).