# 536 Professional Organizations

group that provided continuity from one congress to the next. In 1948, an international organization to support and promote psychology worldwide was formally discussed at the ﬁrst post–World War II congress in Edinburgh. The United Nations Educational, Scientiﬁc, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) indicated a willingness to provide ﬁnancial sup- port for international scientiﬁc organizations. So, in 1951 the International Union of Scientiﬁc Psychology (IUSP) was formed at the International Congress with a name change to the International Union of Psychological Sciences in 1965. The International Union of Psychological Sciences became a member of the Interna- tional Council of Scientiﬁc Unions in 1982, with an attendant change in name to the current International Union of Psycho- logical Sciences (IUPsyS). In 1952, the IUPsyS became a member of the International Social Science Council. The IUPsyS is one of only two scientiﬁc unions that belong to both theInternationalCouncilofScientiﬁcUnionsandtheIn- ternational Social Science Council, thus providing a bridge betweenthenaturalsciencesandthesocialandbehavioralsci- ences (Rosenzweig, Holtzman, Sabourin, & Belanger, 2000). Membership in IUPsyS is by national associations rather than individual psychologists. There were 20 initial member nations, mostly drawn from western Europe, but also includ- ing Canada, the United States, Egypt, Japan, Brazil, Cuba, and Uruguay. As national associations formed over the sec- ond half of the twentieth century, membership grew to in- clude associations from every continent. At the beginning of the twenty-ﬁrst century, the IUPsyS represented 66 na- tional members, which, in turn, represented most of the 500,000 or so psychologists around the world. There are 11 organizations afﬁliated with IUPsyS. In addition to sponsor- ing the International Congress of Psychology every 4 years, IUPsyS publishes The International Journal of Psychology and facilitates communication among its national members (Rosenzweig et al., 2000).