# Intelligence Operationally Deﬁned

E. G. Boring (1923), in an article in the New Republic, pro- posed that intelligence is what the tests of intelligence test. Boring did not believe that this operational deﬁnition was the end of the line for understanding intelligence. On the con- trary, he saw it as a “narrow deﬁnition, but a point of de- parture for a rigorous discussion . . . until further scientiﬁc discussion allows us to extend [it]” (p. 35). Nevertheless, many psychologists and especially testers and interpreters of tests of intelligence have adopted this deﬁnition or something similar to it.

From a scientiﬁc point of view, the deﬁnition is problem- atical. First, the deﬁnition is circular: It deﬁnes intelligence in terms of what intelligence tests test, but what the tests test can only be determined by one’s deﬁnition of intelligence. Sec- ond, the deﬁnition legitimates rather than calling into scien- tiﬁc question whatever operations are in use at a given time to measure intelligence. To the extent that the goal of science is to disconﬁrm existing scientiﬁc views (Popper, 1959), such a deﬁnition will not be useful. Third, the deﬁnition assumes that what intelligence tests test is uniform. But this is not the case. Although tests of intelligence tend to correlate posi- tively with each other (the so-called positive manifold ﬁrst noted by Spearman, 1904), such correlations are far from per- fect, even controlling for unreliability. Thus, what an intelli- gence test tests is not just one uniform thing. Moreover, even the most ardent proponents of a general factor of intelligence (a single element common to all of these tests) acknowledge there is more to intelligence than just the general factor.