# REFERENCES 20

referred to the interpretation of the data of empirical psychol- ogy through the use of reason and logic. These psychologies were characterized as using knowledge acquired through experience (empirical psychology) or using knowledge that the mind possesses independent of experience (rational psy- chology) (Murray, 1988).

Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) denied the validity of any rational psychology because, he argued, rational mental processes must be activated by mental content derived from experience; therefore, the study of mind must be conﬁned to questions appropriate to an empirical psychology (Leary, 1978). An empirical psychology of mental content could not, Kant contended, become a proper natural science because mental events cannot be quantiﬁed (i.e., measured or weighed), and thus its data are neither capable of being described math- ematically nor subject to experimental manipulation. Finally, Kant asserted, the method of observing the mind—introspec- tion—distorts the events observed by observing them. How- ever, Kant suggested, psychology might improve its status as an empirical science by adopting the methods of anthropol- ogy to observe the activities of human beings in realistic set- tings. This study (Leary, 1978), supplemented by drawing upon literature, history, and biography as sources of informa- tion about the manifestation of mind in human activity, would base psychology upon objective observations of pub- lic events and avoid the limitations of an empirical psychol- ogy based solely on internal observation of private events. long in coming. Jakob FriederichFries(1773–1843)raisedthestatusofintrospection

Responses to Kant were not