---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6e136cc098dbeddaf0cca3e996cfd7f839a9c1ce
title: untitled
---
# LOOKING AHEAD

Having opened with the words of one English author, this chapter can ﬁttingly close with the words of another: “It was the best of times; it was the worst of times,” wrote Charles Dickens in beginning A Tale of Two Cities. Assessment psy- chology has arrived at the best and worst of times following a long and distinguished history. As has been noted, the roots of scientiﬁc and professional interest in assessing individual differences reach almost as far back as the inception of psy- chology as a science and preceded its initial applications in applied practice. Advances in assessment methods were psy- chology’s main way of responding to public and national needs during the ﬁrst half of the twentieth century, and applied psychology was largely deﬁned during this time by assessment conducted in clinical, educational, and organiza- tional settings. Students interested in practicing or studying aspects of applied psychology were routinely trained in as- sessment methods of various kinds, and being a competent assessor was generally considered an integral part of being a competent psychological practitioner.

As reviewed elsewhere in the present volume and in Vol- ume 10 of this Handbook, applied psychology and the place of assessment in it changed dramatically during the second half of the twentieth century. Practicing psychologists em- braced many new roles as therapists and consultants, and their primary work settings evolved from a narrow range of institutions into a broad panoply of attractive opportunities in independent practice and in forensic, health care, governmen- tal, and other agencies that came to appreciate the knowledge and skills that psychologists can bring to bear. Consonant with these new directions in practice, assessment came to play a lesser part than before in what applied psychologists did, and many practitioners chose not to include assessment among the services they offered.

Despite reducing the predominance of assessment, how- ever, these practice changes did not bring bad times with them. To the contrary, the beginning of the twenty-ﬁrst century is in many respects the best of times for assessment psychology, which more than ever before is a progressive, dynamic, intriguing, challenging, and potentially rewarding

ﬁeld of scientiﬁc and professional endeavor. A recent survey by the American Psychological Association Practice Direc- torate has indicated that, after psychotherapy, assessment is the second most frequent service provided by psychologists across various practice settings. Respondents to this survey working in independent practice or in health care or govern- ment settings reported spending 15% to 23% of their time doing assessment, and there appears to be a stable cadre of persons in both academic and practice positions who identify themselves primarily as assessment psychologists (Phelps, Eisman, & Kohout, 1998). Organizations like the Society for Personality Assessment with more that 2,500 members and the National Academy of Neuropsychologists with more than 3,000 members are ﬂourishing, as are practice specialties in which assessment plays a central role, including not only neuropsychology but forensic psychology and school psy- chology as well.

The thriving test publishing business bears further witness to widespread use of many different kinds of assessment methods. There is a steady stream of new instruments, revi- sions of older instruments, updated normative reference data, and advances in computer-based test interpretation with which assessment psychologists must keep current. Compe- tence in assessment cannot be maintained by employing yesterday’s methods; only by incorporating rapidly emerging improvements in assessment methods can practitioners meet ethical standards for competent practice (see Weiner, 1989). The present-day vigor of assessment psychology is re- ﬂected not only in its applications but in a burgeoning litera- ture as well. There are more quality journals, textbooks, and handbooks concerned with assessment available now than at any time in the past. The subscriber-selected journals presently abstracted in the American Psychological Associa- tion’s PsycSCAN: Clinical Psychology include in alphabeti- cal order Assessment, Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology, Journal of Clinical Neuropsychology, Journal of Personality Assessment, and Psychological Assessment, and also widely referenced are the journals Archives of Clinical Neuropsychology, Behavioral Assess- ment, and Journal of Behavioral Assessment. The literature includes an international array of publications as well (e.g., the European Journal of Psychological Assessment, ofﬁcial organ of the European Association of Psychological Assess- ment, and the International Journal of Testing, ofﬁcial organ of the International Test Commission), and published research ﬁndings are constantly expanding knowledge con- cerning the psychometric foundations of psychological as- sessment methods and the beneﬁts that derive from their appropriate use. Noteworthy in this latter regard are detailed reports by the previously mentioned American Psychological

Association Psychological Assessment Work Group that doc- ument the validity of a broad range of assessment methods and their utility in clinical health care and other applied set- tings (Kubiszyn et al., 2000; Meyer et al., 2001).

And yet these are also trying times for assessment, due primarily to negative forces operating from outside psychol- ogy and from within our own ranks as well. From the outside, psychological assessment practice has been buffeted by the priorities placed by managed care agencies on delivering health services in the quickest and least expensive way possi- ble. Such priorities severely restrict support for complex and time-consuming evaluation procedures conducted by doc- toral level professionals. In common with other health care professionals specializing in evaluation procedures, assess- ment psychologists doing primarily clinical work have had their practices curtailed by the advent of managed care, and there has in recent years been some decline in the frequency with which comprehensive multimethod assessments using full-length measures are conducted (Eisman et al., 2000; Piotrowski, 1999; Piotrowski, Belter, & Keller, 1998).

Within psychology’s ranks, contemporary trends in gradu- ate education have compromised the caliber of assessment training provided in many psychology programs. Striving to achieve breadth and diversity in a crowded curriculum, grad- uate faculty have been prone to undervalue assessment skills, to disregard the unique signiﬁcance of assessment for psy- chology’s professional identity, and to consider internship centers responsible for assessment training. These attitudes have been reﬂected in reduced course offerings and decreased requirements in assessment, sometimes consisting of little more than exposure to the mechanics of a few selected tests, without hands-on experience in integrating assessment data collected from multiple sources into carefully crafted written reports. Recent surveys of internship directors identify con- siderable dissatisfaction on their part with the assessment training students are receiving in many graduate programs, and they report that the majority of graduate students arriving at their centers come poorly prepared to conduct evaluations (see Clemence & Handler, 2001; Stedman, Hatch, & Schoen- feld, 2000).

What lies ahead for assessment psychology? Although deﬁnitely wounded by managed care, the ﬁeld does not appear to have sustained any life-threatening injuries. The chapters in Volume 10 of the Handbook attest the continuing breadth and vitality of the ﬁeld, in productive research as well as useful applications, and practitioners on the average appear to have had moderate success in ﬁnding sufﬁcient de- mand for their services. Hence, although health maintenance organizations have posed a distinct threat to the viability of comprehensive assessment and disrupted the professional
