---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 462f4ce00488949fd3da6f23b0918b3b7536623a
title: untitled
---
# 62 Biological Psychology

Luria, who died in 1977. Luria approached detection and evaluation of damage to higher regions of the human brain both as a clinician with extraordinary expertise in neurology and as a scientist interested in higher functions of the nervous system (e.g., his book Language and Cognition, 1981).

Yet another origin of cognitive neuroscience is recording the activity of the human brain, initially using the EEG. Donald Lindsley was a pioneer in this work. Lindsley did his graduate work at Iowa and worked with L. E. Travis, himself an important ﬁgure in psychophysiological record- ing. Lindsley then took a three-year postdoctoral at Har- vard Medical School (1933–1935). The neurophysiologist Alexander Forbes was at Harvard doing pioneering studies on brain-evoked potentials and EEG in animals. The ﬁrst human EEG recording laboratory was set up at Harvard, and LindsleyandotherpioneeringﬁguressuchasHallowellDavis did the ﬁrst EEG recording inAmerica (Lindsley, 1936).

More recently, the method of averaging evoked potentials recorded from the human scalp made it possible to detect brain signals relevant to behavioral phenomena that could not be detected with individual trial recording. Donald Lindsley was a pioneer in this ﬁeld as well, doing early studies on evoked potential correlates of attention. E. Roy John and oth- ers developed complex, comprehensive methods of quantita- tive analysis of EEG and evoked potential recordings.

But the techniques that have revolutionized the study of normal human brain organization and functions are of course the methods of imaging. The ﬁrst such method was X-ray- computed tomography, developed in the early 1970s. The major innovation beyond simple X rays was complex mathe- matical and computer techniques to reconstruct the images. Somewhat later, positron emission tomography (PET) was developed. It is actually based on a long used method in animal neuroanatomy—autoradiography. In this technique, a radioactive substance that binds to a particular type of mole- cule or brain region is infused and brain sections are prepared and exposed to X-ray ﬁlm. For humans PET involves inject- ing radioactive substances, for example, radiolabeled oxygen (15O), in water. Increased neuronal activity in particular re- gions of the brain causes a rapid increase in blood ﬂow to the regions, as shown years earlier in work by Seymore Kety and others. Consequently, the radioactive water in the blood be- comes more concentrated in active brain areas and is de- tectable by radioactivity detectors.

The most widely used method at present is magnetic reso- nance imaging (MRI). This is based on the fact that changes in blood ﬂow cause changes in the blood’s magnetic proper- ties, which can be detected as changes in a strong imposed magnetic ﬁeld. This method was ﬁrst used in 1990 (Ogawa, Lee, Kay, & Tank). The current procedure is termed

functional MRI (fMRI), involving very fast acquisition of images. A landmark publication in human brain imaging is the elegant book by two pioneers in the ﬁeld, Michael Posner and Marcus Raichle, Images of Mind (1994). The fMRI pro- cedures have several advantages, such as the fact that they are noninvasive—no radioactive substance is injected—and provide better spatial resolution than does PET imaging. Functional magnetic resonance imaging exploits variations in magnetic susceptibility that arise from molecular binding of oxygen to hemoglobin, which can be used to detect blood ﬂow changes associated with neuronal activity. At the present time, these neuronal activity-related signals can be derived from areas of the brain with a spatial resolution of 1 to 2 mm. Moreover, the temporal resolution of this functional imaging technique is compatible with the time course needed to carry out most perceptual and cognitive operations. An important and promising strategy for the use of fMRI is its use in con- junction with other kinds of neurobiological techniques, in- cluding neurophysiology and anatomical and behavioral analyses. Thus, fMRI provides an extraordinary new window through which one can probe the neural machinery of cogni- tion (Albright, 2000).
