# SUMMARY

This analysis of I-O psychology’s history demonstrates that the rise of the discipline during the past 100 years was the

result of conﬂuences of dynamic external (socioeconomic, business, legal, military, technology, psychology) and inter- nal forces (individuals, theories, and applications) at various times. These forces, along with other inﬂuences (e.g., inter- disciplinary ﬁelds), interacted in shaping both science and practice. Several trends from then to now can be summarized: (a) I-O psychologists are more proactive and less reactive, (b) both employee goals and organizational goals are now considered rather than only organizational goals, (c) the dis- cipline is a blending of science and practice, (d) intricate and integrated approaches are used to understand humans in the workplace (i.e., broad theories and models take into consideration the complexity of cognition and behavior in or- ganizations) instead of a simple view, (e) specialties within the discipline now exist, (f) an increasing objectivity and greater accuracy of measurement (statistics) are emphasized, (g) more and better trained I-O psychologists and teachers are available, (h) more research is conducted on employee be- haviors (personality traits, organizational citizenship behav- iors) and contexts (work teams, international contexts) rather than on theoretical constructs (e.g., motivation), and (i) the underlying theme, improving the workplace and work lives, remains steadfast in the discipline.

CONCLUSION: WHAT HAVE WE LEARNED?

A better understanding of what I-O psychologists did and why they did what they did was obtained from examining the sociohistorical context of the discipline. Have I-O psycholo- gists made a difference in the workplace? According to Katzell and Austin (1992),

I-O psychology has become a viable scientiﬁc discipline that has added much to society’s knowledge about work behavior. . . . I/O psychology has become an important contributor to manage- ment. . . . I/O psychology has been contributing to the general well-being of American society. It has done so by helping to select people for work for which they are suited, training and developing them to be more effective in their work and careers, reducing bias in the employment of the disadvantaged, improv- ing safety and comfort at work, and enhancing the quality of work life. (pp. 822–823)

What can the past teach about the future of I-O psychol- ogy? External and internal forces will continue to affect the work of I-O psychologists. Cascio (1995) identiﬁed several rapid changes relative to the world of work (e.g., global com- petition, explosion of information technology, reengineering of business processes) that have important implications for the science and practice in I-O psychology (i.e., job analysis,

employee selection, training and development, performance appraisal, organizational development). When asked to iden- tify factors that will inﬂuence future developments in I-O psychology, SIOP president (2001–2002) William H. Macey remarked,

Technologyisaneasyanswer.Theshiftinwork(andeducational) interpersonal relationships occurring because of technology implementation may be another. Also, in a related sense, the meaning of work itself will change and by deﬁnition so will our practice and science. . . . [A] disproportionate degree of our at- tention may change from science to technology. Also, the hard part of our profession will be in maintaining the scientiﬁc integrity of our work as we move quickly to apply new technol- ogy and media. (William H. Macey, personal communication, August 19, 2000)

These remarks indicate that I-O psychology may come full circle (from primarily technology to science and research, then back to technology), and the scientist-practitioner dis- tinction will continue to prevail. Thus, it is imperative that for I-O psychologists to continue to make a difference, they need to know their history to understand what was done, what was not done, and why. After reviewing the ﬁrst 50 years of the journal Personnel Psychology, editor John R. Hollenbeck (1998) stated, “the impact that one has on the future seems to be closely related to one’s appreciation of the past. This makes it all the more ﬁtting, therefore, to reﬂect on and study our past. . . .” (Editorial).