---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 91d09303f073f9497482c9700b5ef7a6eac51ac1
title: untitled
---
# 228 Social Psychology

late-nineteenth-century recognition that humans were at once more complex and less rational than previously was believed with a growing sense that both individuals and society needed scientiﬁc guidance. Moral sentiments, character, individual autonomy, and self-reliance now seemed inadequate for the socialscientiﬁctaskofunderstandingthedynamics,complex- ity, and interdependence of human thought and actions (Haskell, 1977; Ross, 1979). American psychologists were proposing something distinctly more modern about mental life: The functionalist idea of individual adaptations to a con- tinuallychangingenvironment,anideanurturedbyevolution- ary theory, promised a coherent model for penetrating beyond proximate causes, perceiving dynamic action rather than sta- tic structures, and observing complex connectedness rather than unilinear causation. In turn, this functionalist viewpoint opened a conceptual place for behaviorism with its hypothe- sized mechanisms for explaining microscopic processes of adaptation within the individual. Using a double discourse of the natural and the mechanistic (Seltzer, 1992), psychology afforded a rich, if sometimes contradictory, conception of the individual as at once a natural organism produced through evolution and as operating under mechanistic principles. This “mechanical man” of behaviorism (Buckley, 1989) was promising both as an object of scientiﬁc scrutiny and as a target of social control despite the fact that it seemed at odds with the white middle-class sense of psychological com- plexity: Americans were envisioning self as personality realized through presentation of self, consumption, fulﬁll- ment, conﬁdence, sex appeal, and popularity (Lears, 1983; Morawski, 1997; Susman, 1985). The popularization of psy- choanalysis promoted understandings of the self as deep, dynamic, and nonrational and, consequently, heightened anxieties about managing this self (Pﬁster, 1997).

The apparent tensions between deterministic notions of mental life and a dynamic if anxious conception of often irra- tional human tendencies, however, proved productive for the social and political thinking in the ﬁrst three decades of the century. The Progressive Era, spanning 1900 to 1917, yielded a series of social reforms marked by ﬁrm beliefs in the possi- bility of efﬁcient and orderly progress and equality—in social betterment (Gould, 1974; Wiebe, 1967) and the centrality of scientiﬁc guidance of social and political life (Furner, 1975; Haber, 1964; Wiebe, 1967). Although World War I caused considerable disillusionment about the possibility of rational human conduct, it also provided concrete evidence of both the efﬁcacy and need for scientiﬁc expertise to design social controls—to undertake “social engineering” (Graebner, 1980; Kaplan, 1956; Tobey, 1971). Even the acrimonious social commentator Floyd Dell (1926) lauded the new

scientiﬁc professionals who “undertake therapeutically the tasks of bringing harmony, order and happiness into inhar- monious, disorderly and futile lives” (p. 248). Psychologists’ active involvement in the war effort, largely through con- struction and administration of intelligence tests, demon- strated their utility just as it provided them with professional contacts for undertaking postwar projects (Camﬁeld, 1969; Napoli, 1975; Sokal, 1981; Samelson, 1985). It was in this spirit that John Dewey (1922), an early proponent of psy- chological social psychology, announced that ensuring democracy and social relations depended on the growth of a “scientiﬁc social psychology” (p. 323). Likewise, Floyd Allport (1924) devoted a major part of his famous textbook, Social Psychology, to “social control,” which he believed es- sential for the “basic requirements for a truly democratic so- cial order” (p. 415). Knight Dunlap (1928) pronounced that social psychology was “but a propadeutic to the real subject” of ameliorating social problems through techniques of con- trol, and Joseph Jastrow (1928), another psychologist inter- ested in social psychology, urged psychologists studying the social to join “the small remnant of creative and progressive thinkers who can see even this bewildering world soundly and see it whole. Such is part of the psychologist’s responsi- bility” (p. 436). Social psychology, then, would examine pre- cisely those dimensions of human life that were critical to matters of social control and, if investigated at the level of in- dividual actors, would prescribe circumscribed remedies for pressing social problems.

What distinguished the emerging social psychology from earlier propositions was a set of assumptions materializing within scientiﬁc psychology more generally: a belief in the irrational, amoral bases of human nature; a mechanistic, reductionist model of human thought and behavior; the sci- entiﬁc aspirations to prediction and control; and a ﬁrm con- viction that the resultant scientiﬁc knowledge would provide an ameliorative guide to social practice. Reductionist and mechanistic models conceptualized social phenomena as events at the level of the individual, while the associated sci- entiﬁc aspirations to prediction and control prescribed the use of experimental methods of inquiry. Notably absent from this umbrella program were construals of moral agency, dynamic selfhood, culture, and the dialectic relations between the individual and society that were theorized just a short time earlier.

This rising social psychology, however, harbored several complications and paradoxes. First, psychologists, including the newly self-deﬁned social psychologists, recognized a dilemma of their own complicity: They too inhabit a social world and sometimes act in irrational, emotional ways, but

scientiﬁc expertise demanded something different, primarily rationality and emotional detachment (Morawski, 1986a, 1986b). Second, the idea of having superior understandings of the social world and the speciﬁc knowledge of what con- stitutes optimal social relations and institutions are unequiv- ocally evaluative claims; yet these claims stood alongside an earnest belief that science is value free, disinterested, and objective. Twinning these latter two incompatible commit- ments yielded a conﬂict between utopian or “Baconian” morality, where science serves as an instrument of human improvement, and a “Newtonian” morality, where science serves the rational pursuit of true understandings of nature (Leary, 1980; Toulmin, 1975). Third, the commitment to rigorous, predictive science demanded that discrete variables be investigated under assiduously controlled conditions (typically in the laboratory). Ironically, these experimental conditions actually produced new social phenomena (Suls & Rosnow, 1988), and “The search for precise knowledge created a new subject matter isolated from the wider society; but the justiﬁcation for the whole research was supposedly its value to this wider world” (Smith, 1997, pp. 769–770). Experimental social psychology, explaining social phenom- ena in terms of the individual, was soon to dominate the ﬁeld but did not entirely escape these three tensions; they would continue to surface intermittently. While triumphant, the experimental psychological program for social psychology was not without its critics, some of whom would propose alternative scientiﬁc models.
