---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7d00777aeb8a5080860c722d4fefffe4a75003ef
title: untitled
---
# The Founders

When the ﬁeld of child psychology was established as a sep- arate and distinctive ﬁeld, two sets of inﬂuential individuals were involved. One group provided the institutional and or- ganizational support for the new discipline of psychology; the second group provided ideas and methods for the new sci- ence of developmental psychology. G. Stanley Hall led the ﬁrst group; James Mark Baldwin, Sigmund Freud, and Albert Binet formed the second.

The intellectual ﬁgure who anticipated the emergence of the distinctive ﬁeld of developmental psychology and who in- ﬂuenced the thinking of all these early ﬁgures was not a psy- chologist, however, but the biologist, naturalist, and architect of evolutionary theory, Charles Darwin (1809–1882). Darwin provided the intellectual foundation for a science of develop- ment by arguing that human development was governed by a set of discoverable natural laws. This central thesis, in

combination with Darwin’s own early experimental studies of infants’emotional and perceptual abilities, paved the way for later scientiﬁc analysis of children’s development.

G. Stanley Hall (1844–1924) was a cofounder and ﬁrst president of the American Psychological Association and the founder of the ﬁrst professional journal on development, Pedagogical Seminary. In 1909, Hall, as president of Clark University, invited Sigmund Freud to an international con- ference involving American and European psychologists and psychoanalysts. This was a landmark meeting; it introduced Freud and his psychoanalytic ideas to an American audi- ence, and those ideas shaped the thinking of developmental scholars in the United States for the next half century. As a theorist and methodologist, Hall made more limited contri- butions (see Ross, 1972; White, 1992). He did introduce the questionnaire as a way to explore the contents of children’s minds—in fact, between 1894 and 1914 he published 194 questionnaires (White, 1992)—but his nonrandom sampling strategies, his imprecise wording of questions, and his non- standardized mode of administering the questionnaires made the work more suggestive than deﬁnitive. Hall and his con- temporaries at the turn of the century had limited knowledge of sampling techniques and issues of generalizability, and they chose samples of convenience; unfortunately, these highly selected samples were of unknown representative- ness. Hall is perhaps best known for his recognition that adolescence is a unique period of development with a vari- ety of concomitant shifts in biology, cognition, and social relationships (Hall, 1904).

Hall’s contemporary, James Mark Baldwin (1860–1934), was less of a facilitator but more of a theorist. He held posi- tions at the University of Toronto, where he established the ﬁrst experimental psychology laboratory in North America, and later at Princeton University and Johns Hopkins Univer- sity. Although he was a talented experimentalist, it was his theoretical work that secured his position in the history of developmental psychology. In his extensive theoretical writings, he articulated a variety of themes, which in retro- spect appear surprisingly contemporary (Baldwin, 1894, 1895, 1897). First, he developed a stage theory of develop- ment, which was remarkably similar to Piaget’s. As Piaget would later do, Baldwin set out a series of stages of develop- ment for mental processes, which were to a substantial extent based on observations of his own children. Even more than Piaget, he recognized the interplay between social and cogni- tive development and championed the study of the self and the need to examine different units of analysis (individual, dyad, and group). Unfortunately, Baldwin’s contribution was limited because of the short duration of his career, which

ended abruptly as the result of a personal scandal. In 1908, he was forced to resign from Johns Hopkins after being caught in a raid on a house of prostitution. He spent the rest of his career in Mexico and Europe, where he continued to write about development as well as world peace. A second reason for his limited inﬂuence was his failure to develop empirical paradigms to test his ideas. As is always the case in science, theory without a clear way of evaluating the underlying no- tion is of limited value to the ﬁeld. In spite of his lack of data, his ideas are remarkably modern. It is now recognized that “Baldwin stands alongside William James as one of the pri- mary intellectual forces involved in the founding ofAmerican psychology as a science” (Cairns, 1994, p. 129).

At the time, however, it was Sigmund Freud (1856–1939) who inﬂuenced American developmental psychology. Freud offered both a theory of development based on psychosexual stages and a method of study, psychoanalysis (Freud, 1900, 1905, 1910). Freud taught at the University of Vienna but de- voted himself largely to clinical work with neurotic patients and to a proliﬁc writing career. In spite of the fact that he did not treat children, he developed a theory of early development based on the recollections of childhood by his adult clients. In many ways, Freud set the agenda for the next 50 years of de- velopmental psychology by deﬁning content domains (ag- gression, sex roles, morality) and articulating central themes (the importance of early experience, the formative impact of early family relationships for later developmental outcomes). Alfred Binet (1857–1911) was the most underappreciated ﬁgure of this era (Siegler, 1992). Despite his lack of formal training in psychology, Binet was a proliﬁc contributor with over 200 books, articles, and reviews on a wide range of psy- chological subjects to his credit. Binet is, of course, best known for his contributions to the assessment of intelligence (Binet & Simon, 1905), but he was much more than the father of IQ testing. He anticipated a number of Piaget’s views, for example, that cognitive development is a constructive process, that its purpose is adaptation to the physical and social worlds, that children assimilate new experiences to existing ways of thinking, and that intelligence pervades all activities. Moreover, he made major contributions to various areas of memory, particularly suggestibility and eyewitness testimony, children’s memory for prose, and the role of memory in mental calculation expertise (Binet, 1894, 1900). Binet designed and conducted a variety of memory experi- ments. At the same time, he recognized the need to apply convergent methodological approaches to solve psychologi- cal problems. “Our psychology is not yet so advanced that we can limit our analyses to information attained in the laboratory” (Binet, quoted in Cairns, 1983). It is interesting
