data/clean/untitled__chunk2384.md, before:

# Additional Resources

assessment methodologies will maintain a strong appeal as school systems are increasingly held accountable for the pro- cedures of assessment and intervention and the instructional outcomes of students.

The basic roles of school psychologists will remain. Practice will continue to focus on individual child study with interventions delivered one-on-one or in groups. Pharmaco- logical and genetic test developments will increase in impor- tance, necessitating additional training and team efforts in service delivery. Contemporary interventions of remediation and therapy will be supplemented by these developments. Consultation will continue at its present level, failing to ex- pand in priority because of personnel shortages and the prior- ity of assessment and other intervention services. Role and function changes should ensure that school districts continue to have sufﬁcient diagnostic and intervention services avail- able to the entire school population.

Finally, the ﬁeld should conduct a futures conference to better deﬁne its goals and directions. The conference should be sponsored by several major organizational constituencies and seek to alleviate policy differences among them. Addi- tional discussions of the future of school psychology appear in Fagan andSheridan(2000),FaganandWise(2000),Oakland and Cunningham (1999), a special issue of Psychology in the Schools (2000, volume 37, number 1), and Ysseldyke, Dawson, Lehr, Reschly, Reynolds, and Telzrow (1997).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk2384.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 78315eb199b387d1777624a7c8033604b8eb2eac
title: untitled
---
# A COMMENT ON THE FUTURE

Hindsight is everything, and forecasting the future is risky. Nevertheless, the following general opinions about the future of school psychology in the coming two decades are offered. A strong demand for school psychologists provides a favor- able employment market. The practitioner workforce may grow to 35,000, but there will be a strong need for new prac- titioners to replace retiring personnel. Unless the number of graduates increases substantially, school districts ﬁnd others to provide psychological services, or such services are per- ceived to be less needed, the current personnel shortage is expected to continue. The ﬁeld should take decisive action to increase the number of students in training to better provide the needed supply of future practitioners and trainers. This effort should include stronger recruiting by training programs and the adjustment of accreditation and credentialing require- ments, which were increasing at the same time that personnel shortages were becoming more acute.

TheNASPandtheAPADivisionofSchoolPsychologywill continue as the dominant national-level representatives and continue to struggle at the national and state levels over policy differences. The NASP will grow to at least 25,000 members and the division to perhaps 3,500. They will maintain their

state afﬁliations and advocacy programs much as they are. Though many in the ﬁeld would like to see a united force for school psychology achieved by a merger of the NASPand the Division of School Psychology-APA, this is a very remote possibility.

The literary growth of the ﬁeld will level off, at least in quantity. There are enough journals and newsletters to main- tain the ﬁeld for many years, and additional journals speciﬁc to school psychology are unnecessary. Books will continue to be produced as training program needs dictate, and additional books will be written along lines of expanding specialties, subspecialties, proﬁciencies, and practitioners’ personal in- terests. The Internet and electronic media will offer new, and unfortunately less regulated and refereed, outlets for practi- tioner information. The Internet as a source of information for practitioners and trainers will be vast but will force the consumer to be better educated about methodologies and dis- tinguishing personal opinion and testimonials from authorita- tive opinion and data-based outcomes. At least as far as school psychology Web sites and listservs are concerned, the ﬁeld should develop guidelines to regulate the quality of information available.

The number of training programs will not increase in any appreciableway.Master’s-degree-onlyprogramswillfadeout of existence as specialist-level programs become the norm. The NASP/NCATE will continue as the dominant accreditor of these programs. Doctoral programs will grow in number to about 100 in the United States. Although both the NASP/ NCATE and the APA will continue to accredit doctoral pro- grams, theAPAwill continue its dominant position.All levels of programs should increase recruitment efforts to graduate more students to meet the current and future shortage of prac- titioners. A strong effort should be made to increase the num- ber of doctoral graduates interested in academic careers.

Changes in credentialing will be more qualitative than quantitative. The two systems of credentialing (SDE and SBEP) will continue with occasional struggles for practice privileges. Recognition credentials (NCSP, ABSP) will in- crease in popularity and may be extended to specialized groups such as the supervisor credential being considered by NASP. More states will recognize the NCSPin granting prac- tice credentials. Efforts should continue to alleviate tensions between state education and state psychology credentialing boards by broader recognition of the legitimate role of non- doctoral psychology practitioners.

Contemporary tests of ability, achievement, adaptive be- havior, social skills, and personality will retain their market share. Technical adequacy of tests will continue to improve, and the signiﬁcance of cognitive and neuropsychological the- ories will continue to develop. Nevertheless, nontraditional
