# 188 Personality

Explorations in Personality (Murray, 1938), a study of 51 young men by his interdisciplinary team and one of the ﬁrst major systematic research studies of normal personality.

Variable-Centered Concepts. Explorations in Person- ality is most often cited nowadays for its list of 20-plus mo- tives or “needs.” For example, this catalog of motives formed the basis of numerous personality questionnaire measures, such as the Stern Activities Index, the Edwards Personal Preference Schedule (EPPS), and the Jackson Personality Research Form (PRF). David McClelland and his colleagues developed thematic apperceptive measures of three major motives (achievement, afﬁliation, and power) from Murray’s list of needs (see Winter, 1998b).

Actually, motives were only one part of an extensive, 101-page catalog of “variables of personality” (Murray, 1938, pp. 142–242), which also included other concepts (discussed below) such as need-integrates, general traits or attributes, “miscellaneous internal factors,” and numerous other variables such as values, sentiments, interests, “gratu- ities,” abilities, and complexes. (At the conclusion of the description of these variables, Murray wrote, “No one who has had the patience to read through this section can be expected to come away from it now with a clear head” [1938, p. 230].)

Person-Centered Procedures. In addition to its wealth of dimensional contributions, the Explorations project also presented an elaborate series of procedures, developed or adapted by Murray and his collaborators, for describing and assessing individual persons (Murray, 1938, pp. 397–603). Some (such as tests of hypnotic susceptibility or level of as- piration) yielded simple scores, like traditional dimensional tests. Many other procedures, however, lent themselves more to conﬁgurational or narrative interpretation: for example, a group conference with the person being studied, informal conversations, an autobiography, the Thematic Apperception Test (TAT), and a Dramatic Productions Test (developed by Erik Erikson; see Homburger, 1937).

The ﬁnal stage in the assessment of each person was thor- oughlycenteredontheuniqueandcomplexstructureofthein- dividual.After all information on a person had been collected, a “biographer” prepared a “psychograph,” deﬁned as an “ab- stract biography” (Murray, 1938, pp. 605–606) or “recon- struction of the subject’s personality from birth” (p. 29); this deﬁnition, which emphasized the person-centered approach, was quite different from the nomothetic deﬁnition of “psycho- graph” as a proﬁle of trait scores (see, e.g., F. H. Allport & G. W. Allport, 1921; for an application of both approaches to the description of an individual person, see McClelland, 1951,

especially pp. 589, 591).Aﬁve-person diagnostic council then discussed the person, often for ﬁve or six hours, and voted on ﬁnal ratings for that person on all personality variables. (The reliance on a diagnostic council’s discussion, rather than more quantitative, and thus dimensional, methods was one reason why Harvard psychologists Karl Lashley and Edwin Boring voted against tenure for Murray; see F. G. Robinson, 1992, p. 225). Only one such case, that of “Earnst” (written by Robert White), was actually presented in Explorations, but it was presented at considerable length: At 88 pages, it took up 11% of the book’s entire text. Because of space limitations, other cases had to be eliminated from the ﬁnal version of the book (Robinson, 1992).

Person-Centered Concepts. While most of the vari- ables in Murray’s catalog lent themselves to elaboration in a nomothetic direction, several concepts were particularly ap- propriate to the intensive study of individual lives. For exam- ple, the concept of need-integrate referred to the compound of a motive along with its customary emotions, preferred modes of action, and familiar related goal objects (1938, pp. 109–110). While the motive itself (e.g., achievement, af- ﬁliation, power) may be universal—that is, present in varying amounts in most people—the remaining components of emo- tion, action modes, and objects would be different for differ- ent people. Thus, the need-integrate concept individualizes the more nomothetic concept of motive. (Murray used the term “complex” in a similar fashion.)

Murray deﬁned gratuity as a “gratuitous end situation,” that is, an unnaturally easy goal-attainment due to factors such as inheritance or luck. Such gratuities are “common in the lives of the over-privileged” (1938, pp. 62, 112n; see also p. 228). The gratuity concept has the potential to link indi- vidual personalities to the opportunities, demands, and re- sources of their environments, thereby making it possible to incorporate race and class privilege (or, conversely, race and class oppression) into the personality portrait.

Several concepts refer to the hierarchical and temporal arrangement of people’s motives; for example, regnancy, whereonemotivedominatesothers(Murray,1938,pp.45–49); relations of fusion, subsidiation, and conﬂict among different motives at any one time (pp. 86–89); and time-binding or ordi- nation (p. 49; see also Murray, 1959), by which processes different motives are arranged into long-term temporal sequences, “strategies,” or serial proceedings (Murray, 1959). Theseconceptsmakeitpossibletochart,witharelativelysmall number of basic motives and other personality characteristics, an almost inﬁnite range of individuality over the life course. Murray conceptualized the forces and stimuli of the envi- ronment in terms of perceived and actual press. In Murray’s