---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4e68af8587d310deb5f07d9cac4c481f657d4419
title: untitled
---
## A Period of Institutionalization and Fragmentation (1915–1940) 209

development. His goal was to provide a systematic account of development, not necessarily to control or predict the direction of development. Piaget balanced the importance of both internal, biological processes of development and exter- nal resources to support it. He posited biological adaptational processes as the explanatory mechanism for development, and his theoretical aim was understanding, not prediction or control. Although these three theorists diverged in their as- sessment of the nature of developmental processes, they did agree that there are universal and historically independent processes that account for development.

The three theorists also differed in their assumptions about the course of development. Piaget was clearly a committed stage theorist who endorsed the concept of discontinuity across development. Watson, on the other hand, viewed de- velopment as continuous. Gesell recognized both continuity and discontinuity across development. For Gesell, there are periods of reorganization at different points across develop- ment but considerable continuity in terms of underlying processes. Siegler and Crowley’s (1992) microgenetic ap- proach might well have been championed by Gesell, with its recognition that there is an uneven progression across devel- opment as new skills and strategies are acquired and inte- grated in the child’s repertoire.

The big-three theorists of this era also took somewhat dif- ferent approaches to conducting research. Watson performed laboratory “experiments,” which actually, because of their lack of control, are more accurately referred to as demonstra- tions. Gesell and Piaget, in contrast, raised systematic obser- vation to a new level. Piaget watched, with much proﬁt, his own infants (Piaget, 1926), while Gesell made a career of cat- aloging motor movements of other people’s children (Gesell, 1928). Both incorporated subtle structured interventions into their observations—a pile of three red blocks, a matchbox, a screen—to probe with inﬁnite patience the minute changes in abilities evident over the course of a week or a month in a child’s life.

A ﬁnal way in which the triad of theorists differed was in their view of how—or whether—the principles of develop- mental psychology should be applied to “real world” issues. Piaget was basically uninterested in applied issues—in spite of an abundance of efforts by others to apply his theory to education settings in the 1960s and 1970s. He called these concerns “theAmerican question.” In contrast, Watson was a strongproponentofapplyinglearningprinciplestotherearing of children. Through a series of popular books addressed to parents, Watson tried to shape the thinking of a generation of parents. “Parents, whether they know it or not,” he stated with authority,“startintensivetrainingoftheirchildrenatbirth.By 3 years of age, the child’s whole emotional life plan has been
