---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c2ed5595f0aaa8a1596fffe74788be55416dc970
title: untitled
---
# 352 Clinical Psychology

A second category of frequently used medications is anti- depressants, including tricyclics (Tofranil) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (Prozac). These medications have proven to be effective in many double-blind studies, though not more so than cognitive behavior therapy or man- ualized interpersonal psychotherapy, according to NIMH clinical trials. Nevertheless, they have brought about a funda- mental change in the practice of outpatient psychiatry, which is much more involved with adjusting drug regimens and less involved with psychotherapy than it used to be (Shorter, 1997). Lithium seems an effective treatment for manic states and also has prophylactic value in managing bipolar disorder. Again, while clinicians have made contributions to this area (Jamison, 1992; Jamison & Akiskal, 1983), its administration was a medical responsibility. The same thing can be said about methylphenidate or Ritalin, the most frequently pre- scribed drug for children, used in the treatment of attention deﬁcit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Clinical psycholo- gists have been involved in evaluating the effects of stimu- lant drugs (Conners, Sitarenios, Parker, & Epstein, 1998) and in determining whether behavior therapy can be an effec- tive treatment. Barkley (1990) used Ritalin to examine the parent–child relations in children with ADHD. The parents of these children tend to be overcontrolling but are less so when their child is on Ritalin, thus indicating they are responsive to their child’s level of hyperactivity. However, not all clini- cal psychologists were content with restricting their role to research with drugs.

During the 1980s, a movement began to permit clinical psychologists with proper additional training to prescribe these medications. The government sponsored a demonstra- tion project to show its feasibility, and with that accom- plished a few university training programs began to offer courses that would prepare clinical psychologists to assume that role. Although the majority of clinical psychologists showed little interest in gaining prescription privileges (Piotrowski & Lubin, 1989), that interest may be more broadly kindled in the coming generations. An APA division for psychologists who do have an interest in prescribing psy- chotropic medications has been recently established. In 1995 APA Division 12, the Society of Clinical Psychology, set up a task force to identify empirically supported psychological interventions for various types of psychopathology. Such an identiﬁcation has decided implications for health service in- surers, who can use it to determine if practitioners are entitled to be reimbursed for their services. A listing of such treat- ments tends to endorse behavior therapy approaches more so than psychotherapy, which has led to understandable anguish among psychotherapists, who believe their effects are not fairly evaluated when overt symptoms are the major focus.

The criteria used for selecting empirically supported treat- ments has been much discussed (Chambless & Hollon, 1998), and an interdiciplinary movement is under way, in- cluding representatives of psychiatry, psychology, other men- tal health ﬁelds, managed care executives, and consumers, to develop treatment guidelines so that health care dollars can be rationally allocated.
