---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5d1b5f7aa3ffc6345572db5a29b94271e8690f8e
title: untitled
---
# The Case of Balance Theories

It may be of little surprise, given the above, that balance or consistencytheoriesgarneredafairbitofsocialpsychological attentionatthistime.Theindividual–socialworldrelationwas depicted as a kind of juggling of internal states and external conditions, or personal versus situational attributions played offofoneanother.Againstthebackdropofsocialandpolitical upheaval, then, psychological balance theories offered a feel- ingofequipoiseatsomelevel,whetherofone’sowninnerand outer life or one’s relation to others or to surrounding beliefs, during this heated mix inAmerica of politics, sex, and secrets. Balance theories may thus be thought of as exerting a kind of intuitivedouble-hold—ﬁrstthroughthecyberneticrevisionof homeostatic mechanisms and second through an everyday so- cial psychology that sought perhaps to balance the day-to-day teeter-tottering of psychological security and insecurity. Arguably outgrowths of cybernetics and wider cultural pre- occupations, cognitive consistency theories, such as Leon Festinger’s cognitive dissonance theory, Frtiz Heider’s bal- ance theories, and John Thibaut and Harold Kelley’s social exchangetheories,heldoutasubjectivityof rationalcontrolin a time of the country appearing out of control.

It is possible to regard social psychology’s mix of balance theories and cybernetic inﬂuences during the period 1945 to the 1960s as reﬂecting not quite competing versions of the human. On the one hand, as Hayles outlines them, there cir- culated the notion of “man” as a “homeostatic self-regulating mechanism whose boundaries were clearly delineated from the environment and, [on the other], a more threatening, reﬂexive vision of a man spliced into an informational circuit that could change him in unpredictable ways” (Hayles, 1999, p. 34; also see Bayer, 1999b). The former version resonates with early balance or consistency theories for how they tried to reconcile psychological life with observable reality. The latter, more reﬂexive version carried within it the beginnings of a critique of objectivist epistemology. Such reﬂexive notions of the subject helped to recast behaviorist notions of simple, reductionist input-output mechanisms and other cor- respondence theories of the subject in which representations of the world were assumed to map neatly onto internal expe- rience. Instead, experience itself was thought to organize or bring into being the outside—or social—world (Hayles, 1999). That attributions might arise out of common cultural beliefs without objective or empirical real-world referents gestures toward a more constructionist intelligibility in social psychology, as found in theory and research on self and social perception work by Daryl Bem and Harold Kelly in his attri- bution research. By the 1970s Gergen was to note that had works such as these been “radically extended,” they would
