# Ecological Theory

andKelly(1990)arguedthatthisdisparitycouldberesolvedif community psychologists abandoned their positivist mind- sets and attended to the varying realities in which people live and behave. Echoing the contextualist framework posited by Kingry-Westergaard and Kelly, Trickett, Watts, and Birman (1994) suggested that the very reason that com- munity psychology has not addressed issues related to diver- sity is psychologists have been resistant to shifting their paradigms to a more contextualist perspective.An example of an exemplary recent effort is the work of Morris, Shinn, and Dumont to identify contextual factors affecting the organiza- tional commitment of diverse police ofﬁcers. One of their ﬁndings indicated that ethnicity and gender were important factors in understanding police ofﬁcers’ organizational com- mitments (Morris, Shinn, & DuMont, 1999).

Congruent with the contextualist philosophy and ecologi- cal theory, the use of qualitative methods in community psy- chology research has gradually become more widespread. In the early 1980s, with the work of Holahan and Moos (1982), community psychologists were publishing qualitative work in the ﬁeld’s peer review journals (Cherniss, 1989; McGhee, 1984; Potasznik & Nelson, 1984). Methodologies that most often require qualitative methods of analysis, such as participant-observation and the use of narratives, have been used to understand and describe social settings (Rappaport, 1995). In 1998, K. Miller and Banyard edited a special issue of the American Journal of Community Psychology (AJCP) dedicated to the use of qualitative methods and illustrated the multiple ways nontraditional methods could be used in the ﬁeld’s efforts to contextualize our understanding of indi- vidual behavior (K. Miller & Banyard, 1998). For example, among these articles was one that focused on understanding the educational achievement of young African American men within their ecology, including familial, communal, and cultural contexts (Maton, Hrabowski, & Greif, 1998). In ad- dition, many contemporary community psychologists are illustrating ways to approach the study of the person-in- context through the use of both qualitative and quantitative methods. The research of Rebecca Campbell (1998) is exem- plary. She has sought to understand the relationships between social system responses to rape survivors and the experiences of the survivors through the integration of quantitative and qualitative methods. As the ﬁeld evolves into the twenty-ﬁrst century, multimethod approaches will hopefully become more common as the ﬁeld recognizes the extent to which the context in which we collect information about individuals and communities, including the methods used, inﬂuences our ﬁndings and conclusions. Thus, opening up the methods tool- box will undoubtedly broaden and deepen our understanding of social phenomena.

439