---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 13405b5918293077c6524b3095e98623073a16d8
title: untitled
---
## From Rational Calculator to Error-Prone Subject

One might usefully think of the inﬂuence of computers, cy- bernetic notions, and laboratory simulation techniques as technologies of the social psychological subject. That is, as Gerd Gigerenzer (1991) argues, researchers’tools function as collaborators in staging versions of human nature or the human mind, what he called tools-to-theory transformations. Looking at the case of the institutionalization of the statistic ANOVA (Analysis of Variance) and Kelley’s attribution theory, for example, Gigerenzer demonstrated how the statis- tic became a version of human as an “intuitive statistician.” Across these tool-to-theory transformations relying on com- puters, statistics, and information theory—cybernetics— notions of the human as a rational calculator were one side of the coin of the social psychological subject. On its ﬂip side was an opposing version arising in the 1970s when political events and social history conspired to make known man as a fallible information processor. Irving Janis’s analyses of the Pearl Harbor and Bay of Pigs ﬁascos, for example, cast a stone into the seeming calm waters of group cohesion by re- vealing its downside—groupthink (Janis & Mann, 1977). By the 1970s “man” was virtually awash in characterizations as an error-prone decision maker who fell victim to a host of bi- ases and heuristics, such as in research by Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky. Prior to the 1970s, as Lola Lopes (1991) found, most of the research depicted a rather good decision- making subject. By the 1980s, however, when Time maga- zine named the computer “Man of the Year,” “man” himself would be characterized in Newsweek as “woefully muddled information processors who often stumble along ill-chosen shortcuts to reach bad conclusions” (Lopes, p. 65; Haraway, 1992). This rhetoric of irrationality caught on inside the dis- cipline as well, reframing areas such as social perception, inﬂuence, and prejudice wherein miscalculation, mispercep- tion, and other social psychological information errors were taken to be the devil in the details of daily interactions. Over- looked here as with the overemphasis on internal causes in attribution research was, as Ichheiser argued, the power of the American ideology of individualism in predisposing indi- viduals and social psychologists to look for personal rather than social-historical causes (Bayer & Strickland, 1990).

This oversight was in fact a crucial one, especially in light of the penetrating challenges to social psychology’s subject matters, its reigning positivist epistemology, and notions of subjectivity from various social movements.
