---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4d4407051edbd8920a34a0c652d74614335950b1
title: untitled
---
# PREVENTIVE INTERVENTIONS

Paralleling the development of frameworks and methods that represent an ecological orientation, efforts toward translating community research into action have been an integral part of the ﬁeld’s history through the design and implementation of preventive interventions. The history of prevention research in the United States is a history of cultural changes, such as the emergence of public health as an approach to disease pre- vention and health promotion in the 1920s (Rosen, 1993). The role of citizen advocates for prevention research also has been critical in deﬁning the practice of prevention (B. B. Long, 1989). In addition, private foundations and the found- ing of the NIMH gave prevention prominent attention (Levine, 1981). The creation of the Joint Commission on Mental Illness and Health to review the nation’s mental health contributed to the gradual emergence of prevention as a national priority in the 1960s (Goldston, 1995). Brief com- ments will be made about each of these factors and events prior to the Swampscott Conference, after which, the concept of prevention will be reviewed as a deﬁning focus for com- munity psychology. For further discussions of the history of prevention, the reader is referred to sources such as Caplan (1969), Levine (1981), Levine and Perkins (1997), and Spaulding and Balch (1983).

The emergence of prevention in the United States has beneﬁted from a long history of the social consciousness of citizens and citizen groups. Notable preventionists include Dorothea Dix, Clifford Beers, Jane Addams, the General Federation of Women’s Clubs, the National Association of Colored Women, and, more recently, Beverly Long, among others (Beers, 1908; Brinkley, 1993; Dain, 1980; B. B. Long, 1989; Ridenour, 1961). These citizens, most often women, campaigned to improve the quality of community-based ser- vices by shifting the aim to prevention programming for the poor and less formally educated. In 1909, the founding of the National Mental Health Association meant that, at both na- tional and local levels, advocates for prevention could draw on voluntary organizations to create forums and make it eas- ier for citizens to lobby legislatures for improved community- based prevention services (Ridenour, 1961).

National policy began to emphasize prevention of chronic diseases such as cancer, heart disease, and mental illness just before World War II (Levine, 1981). The aim of public health practice, to reduce the number of new casualties of a disease in a community, began to be applied to mental diseases at the time of the war. From this public health perspective, scientists developed the concepts of primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention (Leavell & Clark, 1965). These terms referred to taking measures to reduce systemic factors to prevent a

problem from occurring (primary prevention); reducing a problem from occurring for persons who have already estab- lished risk factors for that problem (secondary prevention); and reducing the opportunities for reappearance of a problem for these persons (tertiary prevention). Recently these three prevention concepts have been elaborated and discussed in terms of risk, protection, resilience, strengths, and thriving (Dalton et al., 2000).

World War II created an opportunity for mental health pro- fessionals to observe the salience of public health approaches to mental health (G. Caplan, 1964). Mental health profes- sionals discovered that short-term therapeutic services could reduce the number of soldiers succumbing to the stress of battle (Grob, 1991). Given this ﬁnding, multidisciplinary mental health teams began to organize services at or near battleﬁelds to reduce future mental breakdowns and hospital- izations among soldiers (Glass, 1958). The rehabilitation of soldiers in the armed services impacted the practice of men- tal health services on the home front.

The experiences of mental health professionals in World War II emphasized the signiﬁcance of contextual factors (e.g., war conditions) rather than only individual and consti- tutional factors for the expression of mental health problems (Grob, 1991). After the war and with a more active public health orientation, early detection and prevention of mental problems became operational in the mental health system. In adopting more active and community-oriented preventive in- terventions, mental health professionals became more aware of the qualities of communities where interventions would take place. Adding a focus on the qualities of communities in- creased the sensitivities of clinicians about the relationship between the mental health of individuals and the characteris- tics of communities (Grob, 1991).

After World War II, the prevention perspective was bol- stered by a combination of federal, local, and professional interests, as well as strong support from private foundations and national lobbying organizations (Levine & Perkins, 1997). In 1955, the congressionally mandated review of the nation’s mental health services gave further prominence to prevention via the work of the Joint Commission on Mental Illness and Health. As a result of the availability of increased funds, prevention-oriented psychologists had the resources to develop programs and research. Research groups began em- phasizing prevention research and services. For example, Ralph Ojemann (1957) at the State University of Iowa organized conferences beginning in 1957 that brought to- gether prevention researchers interested in prevention in the schools. The St. Louis County Mental Health Department pi- oneered a systematic effort to assess the beneﬁts of a preven- tive school mental health program (Gildea, 1959; Glidewell,

1995). Paul Lemkau (1955), a public health psychiatrist, taught mental health professionals public health approaches to prevention at the Johns Hopkins University School of Public Health. Apioneer community psychologist at the Uni- versity of Rochester, Emory Cowen, began school-based prevention work in the 1950s with elementary school children who were showing signs of academic difﬁculties (Cicchetti, Rappaport, Sandler, & Weissberg, 2000; Cowen, 1997, 2000a, 2000b; Cowen, Hightower, Pedro-Caroll, Work, & Wyman, 1996). Each of these early efforts, in com- bination, helped to create the supportive background and commitment for the passage of the Community Mental Health Services Act of 1963. This act included prevention as one of the 10 essential services.
