# 164 Emotion

1977, pp. 31–32). There is no doubt that fulﬁllment of the James-Lange dream would have been a very pleasant conclu- sion to the search for speciﬁc emotions. But, although the hope remained, it was not to be. Dreams die hard. To those who still insist on a patterning approach, we are only left with Bertrand Russell’s probably apocryphal response to the ques- tion of how he would react to being confronted with God after his death: “Lord, you did not give us enough evidence!” What about an “unspeciﬁc relation” between viscera and emotion, that is, a general autonomic response? Schachter’s studies provided one piece of evidence. The same physiolog- ical antecedent potentiated different emotions. It is also the case that widely different emotions show relatively little difference in physiological patterns. Here we need not go into the question of whether or not these patterns are an- tecedent to the emotional expression. If, with very different emotions, the patterns are similar, the argument can be made that it is highly unlikely the different emotions depend on dif- ferent patterning. In 1969, Averill showed that both sadness and mirth are associated with measurable visceral responses and that both of them seem to involve primarily sympathetic nervous system patterns. Averill found that two divergent emotional states produce highly similar sympathetic states of arousal (Averill, 1969). Patkai (1971) found that adrenaline excretion increased in both pleasant and unpleasant situations when compared with a neutral situation. She concludes that her results “support the hypothesis that adrenalin release is related to the level of general activation rather than being as- sociated with a speciﬁc emotional reaction” (Patkai, 1971). Frankenhaeuser’s laboratory (e.g., Frankenhaeuser, 1975) has produced additional evidence that adrenaline is secreted in a variety of emotional states.

William James believed that patients who have no visceral perception, no feedback from visceral responses, would pro- vide a crucial test of his theory. Parenthetically, we might note that this is a peculiar retreat from James’s position stressing any bodily reaction to the position of Lange, which emphasized visceral response. In any case, James insisted that these people would provide the crucial evidence for his theory—namely, they should be devoid of, or at least deﬁ- cient in, their emotional consciousness. In that sense, William James initiated the study of biofeedback. He thought that variations in the perception of visceral response are central to the emotional life of the individual, and that control over such variations would provide fundamental insights into the causes of emotions.

The sources of the biofeedback movement in modern times are varied, but there are three lines of research that have addressed James’s problem, and it is to these that we now turn. One of them involved individuals who were victims of

a cruel natural experiment—people with spinal injuries that had cut off the feedback from their visceral systems. The sec- ond approach has assumed that individuals may differ in the degree to which they perceive and can respond to their own visceral responses. The third approach, in the direct tradition of what is today commonly called biofeedback, involves teaching individuals to control their autonomic level of response and thereby to vary the feedback available.

The ﬁrst area of research, the “anatomical restriction” of autonomic feedback, is related to the animal studies with auto-immune sympathectomies mentioned earlier. In human subjects, a study by Hohmann (1966) looked at the problem of “experienced” emotion in patients who had suffered spinal cord lesions. He divided these patients into subgroups de- pending on the level of their lesions, the assumption being that the higher the lesion the less autonomic feedback. In sup- port of a visceral feedback position, he found that the higher the level of the spinal cord lesion, the greater the reported de- crease in emotion between the preinjury and the postinjury level. A subsequent study by Jasnos and Hakmiller (1975) also investigated a group of patients with spinal cord lesions, classiﬁed into three categories on the basis of lesion level— from cervical to thoracic to lumbar. There was a signiﬁcantly greater reported level of emotion the lower the level of spinal lesion.

As far as the second approach of individual responsive- ness in autonomic feedback is concerned, there are several studies that use the “Autonomic Perception Questionnaire” (APQ) (Mandler, Mandler, & Uviller, 1958). The APQ measures the degree of subjective awareness of a variety of visceral states. The initial ﬁndings were that autonomic per- ceptionwasrelatedtoautonomicreactivityandthatautonomic perceptionwasinverselyrelatedtoqualityofperformance;in- dividuals with a high degree of perceived autonomic activity performed more poorly on an intellective task (Mandler & Kremen, 1958). Borkovec (1976) noted that individuals who show a high degree of autonomic awareness generally were more reactive to stress stimuli and are more affected by anxiety-producing situations. Perception of autonomic events does apparently play a role in emotional reactivity.

Two studies by Sirota, Schwartz, and Shapiro (1974, 1976) showed that subjects could be taught to control their heart rate and that voluntary slowing of the rate led to a re- duction in the perceived noxiousness of painful shock. They concluded that their results “lend further credence to the notion that subjects can be trained to control anxiety and/or pain by learning to control relevant physiological responses” (Sirota et al., 1976, p. 477). Finally, simulated heart rate feed- back—playing a heart rate recording artiﬁcially produced and purported to be a normal or accelerated heart rate—affected

judgmental evaluative behavior, and Ray and Valins showed that similar simulated heart rate feedback changed subjects’ reactions to feared stimuli (Valins, 1966, 1970; Valins & Ray, 1967). The work on variations of autonomic feedback indi- cates that the perception of autonomic or visceral activity is a powerful variable in manipulating emotional response.

Given that the nineteenth century replayed the ancient view that organic/visceral responses are bothersome and in- terfering, and at best play some incidental mediating role, the mid–twentieth century provided evidence that that old posi- tion does not adequately describe the functions of the visceral reactions. The currently dominant notion about the function and evolution of the sympathetic nervous system has been the concept of homeostasis, linked primarily with W. B. Cannon. In a summary statement, he noted: “In order that the con- stancy of the internal environment may be assured, therefore, every considerable change in the outer world and every con- siderable move in relation to the outer world, must be attended by a rectifying process in the hidden world of the or- ganism” (Cannon, 1930). However, visceral response may also, in addition to its vegetative functions, color and qualita- tively change other ongoing action. It may serve as a signal for action and attention, and signal actions that are important for the survival of the organism (Mandler, 1975). Finally, the autonomic system appears to support adaptive responses, making it more likely, for example, that the organism will re- spond more quickly, scan the environment more effectively, and eventually respond adaptively.

Most of the work in this direction was done by Marianne Frankenhaeuser (1971, 1975). Her studies used a different measurement of autonomic activity: the peripheral appear- ance of adrenaline and noradrenaline (the catecholamines). Frankenhaeuser (1975) argued that the traditional view of catecholamine activity as “primitive” and obsolete may be mistaken and that the catecholamines, even in the modern world, play an adaptive role “by facilitating adjustment to cognitive and emotional pressures.” She showed that normal individuals with relatively higher catecholarnine excretion levels perform better “in terms of speed, accuracy, and en- durance” than those with lower levels. In addition, good ad- justment is accompanied by rapid decreases to base levels of adrenaline output after heavy mental loads have been im- posed. High adrenaline output and rapid return to base levels characterized good adjustment and low neuroticism.

In the course of this survey of the organic tradition, I have wandered far from a purely organic point of view and have probably even done violence to some who see themselves as cognitive centralists rather than organic peripheralists. How- ever, the line of succession seemed clear, and the line of de- velopment was cumulative. Neither the succession nor the