# Appraisal of the Current Era

The current era represents signiﬁcant continuity with the prior period and can best be characterized as eclectic in terms of theoretical models, developmental assumptions, and methodological approaches. As is characteristic of a more mature science, methods and models are not perceived as dogmatic dicta but instead are ﬂexible guides to help formu- late and answer new questions and address new issues as they arise.

The retreat from grand theory that began in the 1980s has continued, and in its place, a variety of minitheories aimed at limited and speciﬁc aspects of development has emerged. However, there is evidence of an attempt to link together these minitheories. The idea of general processes as explana- tions of development has been given up because we have learned that they are not so general; instead, it is increasingly evident that processes depend on the speciﬁcs of the situa- tion, the task, and the subjects’ understanding of the task or situation (Flavell, 1985, 1999; Siegler, 1991). It is now rec- ognized that the domains of childhood—social, emotional, physical, and cognitive—are interdependent and that they overlap and inﬂuence each other mutually.

Attention to secular trends and historical contexts has ac- celerated as the social contexts of children’s lives come under increased scrutiny (Elder, Modell, & Parke, 1994). Shifts in medical practices, employment patterns, and child-care arrangements are all issues of lively debate and vigorous re- search activity (Clarke-Stewart, 1992a, 1992b; Conger & Elder, 1994). Moreover, researchers are giving serious con- sideration to the role that shifts in technology (e.g., comput- ers) have on children’s development; part of the puzzle is to determine whether secular trends produce changes in the timing of onset of developmental phenomena or whether de- velopmental processes themselves are signiﬁcantly altered. Current thinking suggests that certain behavioral characteris- tics are relatively independent of historical variations, while others are more susceptible to these inﬂuences (Horowitz, 1987).

Collaboration between disciplines is increasingly com- mon as the multidetermined nature of development is