---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f7398f5ccbec7dad899f1c6c4686de2b8fa7caaa
title: untitled
---
## THE DISCIPLINE OF EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY TODAY Another approach to tracing a discipline’s history is to exam- ine the current state of the discipline, for all disciplines are, ultimately, a culmination of precedents. In educational psy- chology, this current state can be represented by looking at a small sampling of recent deﬁnitions, directives, theories, methodologies, and applications in the ﬁeld of educational psychology. Some of the deﬁnitions of educational psychology today are broad: Berliner (1993), for example, states: “Our funda- mental goal should be to understand and improve education in our society.” Other deﬁnitions are more speciﬁc: Good and Levin (2001) assert, “The heart of work in educational psychology is to produce theoretical and well-researched psychological knowledge that has the potential for enhancing learning and socialization in various settings.” The directives to practicing educational psychologists come from both institutions and individuals. The mission of the APA’s Division 15, Educational Psychology, is “to pro- vide a collegial environment for psychologists with interests in research, teaching, or practice in educational settings at all levels to present and publish papers about their work in the theory, methodology, and applications to a broad spectrum of teaching, training, and learning issues” (American Psycho- logical Association, 2000). And, somewhat in contrast to the early days of educational psychology, with its emphasis on the purely practical compo- nents of teachers and teaching, Pintrich (2000b) directs edu- cational psychologists, now and in the future, to do work that merges the primarily applied goals of the past with the pre- sent and future goals of furthering the more theoretical, scientiﬁc, and fundamental understandings of learning, de- velopment, cognition, and motivation. Furthermore, Pintrich charges that, as scientists, educational psychologists should also work to gather and provide sound evidence to support our conclusions and conceptual models (Pintrich, 2000b). Although there are some who believe that the discipline of educational psychology is too often in a state of ﬂux, others commend the ability of the discipline to change itself in ways appropriate to meeting the changing needs and demands of society (O’Donnell & Levin, 2001). Mayer (2001) suggests that educational psychology has substantial strengths whose energies can be directed toward making considerable contributions to both the psychology of the subject matter itself and the teaching of cognitive strate- gies. This is congruent with the message in Pintrich’s farewell address after his ﬁfth year as editor of Educational Psychologist. In this address, Pintrich reviewed several themes he saw as emergent in the ﬁeld of educational psy- chology. Although he cited a focus on the individual learner as one of these themes, Pintrich emphasized that educational psychologists could no longer consider the dimensions of cognition, motivation, and social interaction in isolation from the individual (Pintrich, 2000b). This being said, however, what is the current state of edu- cational psychology? What contributions are educational psychologists making now? Who are these changes affect- ing? Most importantly, perhaps, is the question about what directions educational psychology and its practitioners will take in the future. Again, a look at the direction of recent research in the area provides clues that can be used to help answer these questions. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE: THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUESTIONS, MODELS, ISSUES, AND APPLICATIONS Several recent trends in educational psychology show great promise for the present as well as for the future. One of these trends is greater emphasis on the development of models that can be used not only to explain and predict students’successes but to aid students directly in achieving academic success. Many of the existing and evolving models have been designed and developed to provide an easily negotiated bridge between the theoretical and the concrete. Thus, although these models do explain and predict in the same way as more traditional models, they can also be used within a curricular or other set- ting to foster student success. Another difference is that many of the current models are constructed such that the individual components within the model can be assimilated and inte- grated with the other components of the model. The focus is not on the individual elements as much as it is upon the emer- gent properties that are apparent when the components are interacting. These emergent properties are similar to the con- cept of the gestalt: The whole is greater than a simple sum of the parts. Goals for the Future: The Research and Development of Questions, Models, Issues, and Applications 275 Many of these newer models focus on conceptions of broad theoretical and applied interests in the area of self-regulation. Someofthesemodelsareinstructional,emphasizingthedevel- opment of self-regulation skills through speciﬁc instruction; other models provide teachers with directions for implement- ing speciﬁc tools and strategies (Zimmerman, 1998). An example of a model based on this integrative approach to student learning that incorporates both the cognitive and motivational aspects of learning was developed by Pintrich and his associates (Hofer, Yu, & Pintrich, 1998). This model, whichdrawsontheearlierworkofGarciaandPintrich(1994), is based on a four-by-four matrix. The resulting cells, cogni- tive knowledge/beliefs, cognitive and metacognitive strate- gies for regulation, motivational/self-knowledge beliefs, and motivational strategies for regulation, can be conceptually separated from each other. More importantly, perhaps, the cells can be combined and recombined by students as they learn the speciﬁc strategies congruent with each cell (Hofer et al., 1998). An example of a conceptual model being widely used in practice is the Model of Strategic Learning (Weinstein, Husman, & Dierking, 2000). Variations of this model have been used successfully in university “learning to learn” courses for more than 20 years. This model focuses on vari- ables impacting strategic learning, that is, learning that is goal driven. Weinstein’s Model of Strategic Learning has at its core the learner: a unique individual who brings to each learning situation a critical set of variables, including his or her personality, prior knowledge, and school achievement history. Around this core are four broad components focusing on factors that, in interaction, can tremendously inﬂuence the degree to which students set and reach learning and achieve- ment goals. These four components are referred to as skill (i.e., learning strategies and prior knowledge and skills), will (i.e., motivation and positive affect toward learning), self- regulation (i.e., metacognitive comprehension monitoring and time management) and the academic environment (i.e., available resources and social support). Although instruction is encouraged in each of the elements, the interaction among the elements for different learning tasks and goals is most important. ThemodelsdevelopedbyPintrich,Weinstein,Zimmerman, and their associates also provide a useful illustration for another trend in educational psychology. As previously men- tioned, many current models in educational psychology use theoretical underpinnings as a base from which to expand to real-life and real-world educational and training settings. However, these real-life and real-world settings are no longer composedsolelyofformaleducationalsettings,nordotheyin- corporate only the typically aged K–12 or college student. A recently published book, Handbook of Self-Regulation (2000),incorporateschaptersontherelationshipbetweenper- sonality factors and self-regulation (Kuhl, 2000; Matthews, Schwean,Campbell,Saklofske,&Mohamed,2000);commu- nal models of self-regulation (as opposed to the Western, tra- ditionally individualistic models of self-regulation) (Jackson, MacKenzie, & Hobfoll, 2000); the use of self-regulatory strategies in organizational settings (Vancouver, 2000); the examination of the relationship between self-regulation and health behaviors (Brownlee, Leventhal, & Leventhal, 2000; Maes & Gebhardt, 2000); and the function of self-regulation in clinical settings for the treatment of distress (Endler & Kocovski, 2000) and chronic illnesses (Creer, 2000). Al- though it could be argued that what has changed is more a matter of terminology than of substance—in the early 1900s, for example, “will psychologists” used the terms volition and will-powerinmuchthesamewayaswenowusethetermself- regulation—what has changed is that in the 2000s we are attempting to identify and describe the components of self- regulation empirically, using sound research and statistical methodology in favor of earlier, often faulty methods of intro- spection and self-report (Kuhl & Beckman, 1985). We are also focusing on these components in interaction in these varied educational settings. Perhaps one of the most important trends in educational psychology has been the move away from viewing the learner as a generic template and toward viewing the learner as an in- dividual, each with his or her own cognitive, metacognitive, affective, and motivational strengths and weaknesses. Part of the task here is for educational psychologists to work to ex- pand and move beyond the current concept of education, which tends to focus on the core of learning, cognition, and motivation, to a model of education that also encompasses an individual’s affect, values, caring, mental health, adjustment, coping, and adaptation (Pintrich, 2000b). One way educational psychologists have succeeded in expanding the core concepts of learning, cognition, and moti- vation has been to use these constructs as nuclei around which more detailed constructs are built and can revolve. Already mentionedistheideaofastrategiclearner,astudentortrainee of any age, in any setting, who becomes skilled at learning to learn. In contrast to many earlier conceptions of education, it is now accepted that meaningful learning is not simply the ability to memorize chunks of material but the ability to learn, develop, transfer, and use a wide variety of strategies that can be adapted to both content and context
