---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: aac3ff4084f44dcda4588e267c92674962eff9ce
title: untitled
---
# Breuer, Freud, and the First Version of the Psychoanalytic Theory of Psychopathology

Early in the 1890s, Freud and his colleague, Josef Breuer, began to collaborate in developing a psychoanalytic theory to explain hysteria. Their collaboration produced the ﬁrst version of psychoanalytic theory, On the Psychical Mecha- nism of Hysterical Phenomena: Preliminary Communication (Breuer & Freud, 1895/1955), in which they identiﬁed an unconscious memory or complex of memories of a psychical trauma as the pathogen that causes hysteria. An event (or series of events) that causes distressing affect, such as fright, anxiety, shame, or physical pain, can result in a psychical trauma in a susceptible person, and if memory of the event is repressed it acts as a determining cause of hysterical symp- toms. They hypothesized that if the distressing affect thus generated is discharged by energetic involuntary and/or vol- untary reaction, the memory of the event fades. However if no appropriate reaction occurs, either because it is prohibited by social circumstances or the patient voluntarily suppresses (defends against) memory of affective ideas intolerable to the ego, the memory persists, inaccessible to consciousness, and retains its quota of affect, which is converted into pathologi- cal somatic symptoms.

Because patients are reluctant to talk about the event that originally precipitated a hysterical symptom or, much more often, are genuinely unable to remember it, the event cannot be discovered by questioning the patient. However, if the patient is hypnotized, the memory can be recovered. Freud and Breuer claimed that when the patient described the event that had provoked a hysterical symptom and expressed the affect that had accompanied it, the symptom immedi- ately disappeared. They conceded that new symptoms may replace those eliminated, but considered their method supe- rior to attempts to remove the symptoms by means of direct suggestion.

Much of this theory relied on one particular case. Breuer treated a young woman identiﬁed by the pseudonymAnna O.,

for numerous disabling somatic symptoms. He found that Anna went readily and often spontaneously into trance states, during which she recalled the circumstances in which a par- ticular symptom ﬁrst appeared, accompanied by an emotional reaction that had not occurred at the time, after which the symptom improved or even disappeared. Throughout his ca- reer, Freud continued to claim that Breuer had achieved a greattherapeuticsuccesswithAnnaO.However,researchun- dertaken by Ellenberger (1972) revealed that this was not the case; almost immediately after Breuer ended her treatment, Anna O. was hospitalized in a sanitarium where she spent some time under medical treatment. She ﬁnally recovered and subsequently achieved recognition in the feminist movement in general and with her social work with unwed mothers in particular.

In 1895 Breuer and Freud published Studies on Hysteria (1895/1955),whichincludedﬁvecasehistoriesofhysteria(the caseofAnnaO.andfourtreatedbyFreud)andhisPsychother- apy of Hysteria. In the preface to the book’s ﬁrst edition, BreuerandFreudstatedthat“Ourviewisthatsexualityseems to play a principal part in the pathogenesis of hysteria as a sourceofpsychicaltraumasandasamotivefordefense,thatis, for repressing ideas from consciousness” (p. xxix). But in ordertoprotecttheconﬁdentialityoftheirpatientstheydidnot publishdetailsoftheirobservationsinsupportofthisview.
