# 80 Comparative Psychology

sophisticated but has begun to creep back into the ﬁeld as somebelievethatthemostremarkablefeatsofanimalscannot be produced under controlled conditions but require unusual circumstances. Comparative psychologists have devoted much attention to the construction of apparatus appropriate to the problem at hand (Warden et al., 1935; D. A. Washburn, Rumbaugh, & Richardson, 1998).

The theory of evolution has provided the conceptual foun- dation of psychology since its founding. At times, it has been in the foreground, as in the early work of James, Angell, Hall, and James Mark Baldwin (1896), who along with two others, proposed the “Baldwin effect” as a means to explain apparent inheritance of acquired traits with more conventional evolu- tionary principles. Another examples is the APA presidential address of Calvin Stone (1943). At other times, it has been more implicit. Although the evolutionary focus of compara- tive psychology was not obvious to some observers during parts of the history of the ﬁeld, the strong evolutionary ap- proach has been increasingly visible since World War II.

Surely the most persistent issue in comparative psychol- ogy, and perhaps for all psychology, has been the nature- nurture problem. Throughout its history the pendulum has swung back and forth between emphases on genes and envi- ronment in the development of behavior. Such psychologists as William James and William McDougall postulated many instincts in humans and other species. This led to an anti- instinct revolt that was particularly strong during the 1920s. Virtually all comparative psychologists now recognize the importance of the continuous, dynamic interaction of genes and environment in the development of behavior. Some, such as Yerkes, Stone, Robert Tryon, and Jerry Hirsch, have con- ducted important studies of genetic inﬂuences. Such psychol- ogists as Harlow, Eckhard Hess, and Gilbert Gottlieb have worked more on experiential factors. Virtually all agree on the importance of the dynamic interaction of both.

A key part of the nature-nurture problem is that problem of instinctive behavior. The fact is that individuals of many species develop either speciﬁc motor patterns or responsivity to speciﬁc stimuli in the absence of speciﬁc experience. For example, young sea turtles hatched on a beach in the absence of adults go toward the ocean, not the dune (Mellgren & Mann, 1998). The environment is critical for all behavior but appears not to provide the speciﬁcity in such instances. Whatever one may call it, the ontogeny of such behavioral patterns appears different, at least to some degree, from the ontogeny of many other behavioral patterns. Comparative psychologists still grapple with the problem of explaining such behavior.

Sensory-perceptual systems provide the stimuli for virtu- ally all behavior and have been of interest in comparative psychology throughout its history. Six of the 13 chapters in

M. F. Washburn’s (1908) textbook were devoted to sensory systems. Watson, Lashley, Hess, and many others have contributed in this endeavor.

Many studies of basic behavioral patterns have been con- ducted. Included are such topics as orientation, activity, in- gestive behavior, hoarding, nest building, exploration, and play. Many comparative psychologists have studied social behavior and imitation.

Forsheerquantityofresearcharticles,thestudyoflearning may exceed all other problems in comparative psychology. Almost all comparative psychologists have conducted at least some research related to learning. Many studies have been of single species. Some, such as Bitterman (1965), Gossette (Gossette & Gossette, 1967), and Rumbaugh (Rumbaugh & Pate, 1984), have attempted systematic comparisons using particular learning problems. In recent years, many compara- tive psychologists have viewed learning in relation to the de- mands of the speciﬁc habitats in which the study species has evolved (e.g., Shettleworth, 1998). The question concerning the existence of a general learning process versus domain- speciﬁc mechanisms is actively debated.

At least from the time of Thorndike, the issue of animal cognition has been central. Is all learning the product of basic mechanisms, or are higher processes sometimes required to explain changes in animal behavior, as suggested by Köhler, Maier, and many recent cognitive psychologists and etholo- gists? Most of the issues addressed in the ﬂourishing ﬁeld of comparative cognition were also addressed, in one form or another, by earlier generations. In recent years, work based on the assumption that higher processes are operative has led to many fascinating ﬁndings in comparative psychology, in- cluding investigations based on a theory of mind (Premack & Woodruff, 1978), of production and comprehension of refer- ential pointing (Call & Tomasello, 1994), and those suggest- ing that “chimpanzees are capable of modeling the visual perspectives of others” (Povinelli, Nelson, & Boysen, 1990). Such results suggest that, at the very least, these cognitive ap- proaches might be of considerable heuristic value.

Throughout its history, comparative research, from Ivan Pavlov and John B. Watson to the present, has been attacked by animal activists of one sort or another (Dewsbury, 1990). Recent studies of animal cognition have produced an ironic twist. Some of the very research that activists condemn has revealed remarkable abilities in animals and similarities to humans that the activists then use to argue for the cessation of that research because of that similarity to humans.

Related to the issue of cognition is that of animal con- sciousness. In this area there seems to have been little progress since the days of Morgan (1894) and M. F. Washburn (1908). I see in many species, especially pri- mates, behavior that, in myself, is correlated with certain

states of consciousness. At a personal level, I fully believe that those animals have a consciousness that is similar to mine in at least some respects. However, despite the protes- tations of Grifﬁn, I see no “windows on the mind” that will enable us to draw such conclusions in any scientiﬁcally meaningful way.

Throughout its history, comparative psychology has been a basic science, concerned with generating general principles rather than solving problems for immediate application. Nev- ertheless, many comparative studies have produced infor- mation of practical import. Primates trained to manipulate joysticks and other manipulanda have been used in the space program. Targeted research has been directed at a range of problems from controlling the tree snakes on Guam (Chiszar, 1990) to designing more challenging environments for cap- tive zoo animals (Markowitz, 1982) to training animals for reintroduction into their natural habitats (e.g., Beck & Castro, 1994). Comparative psychologists have been concerned with the psychological well-being of primates in research labora- tories (e.g., Novak & Suomi, 1988) and the use of therapy to treat behavioral problems in household pets (Tuber, Hothersall, & Voith, 1974).

The major paradox of comparative psychology is that it is basically the study of nonhuman animal mind and behavior within a discipline that is often deﬁned as the study of the human mind and behavior. This issue was laid out near the beginning of the last century by Wilhelm Wundt (1901), who contrasted research conducted for its own sake with that con- ducted to shed light on human behavior. In the latter ap- proach, Wundt suggested, “man is only considered as one, though, of course, the highest, of developmental stages to be examined” (p. 340). Near the middle of the century, Beach (1960) put it differently:

If we remove man from the central point in a comparative sci- ence of behavior, this may, in the long run, prove to be the very best way of reaching a better understanding of his place in nature and of the behavioral characteristics which he shares with other animals as well as those which he possesses alone or which are in him developed to a unique degree. (p. 18)