# 484 Ethnic Minorities

view that segregation had possibly robbed the Black person of “some vital aspect of his personality” leaving him deﬁcient for adapting effectively. The prevailing picture presented was one of human beings who were able only to react to their environments rather than take charge of their destinies.

Now, there is no question that African Americans as a group have been continuously and disproportionately num- bered among the poor, and that they suffer and have suffered personally and collectively in the United States. Indeed, at times it does appear that African Americans have responded as if “shaped” by the “contingencies” imposed upon them by the racist society (Hayes, 1991). In many instances, this has led to features in the African American personality which could be called “adaptive inferiority” (Pugh, 1972). But we know, too, from a closer reading of history and from personal observation that this has not been all there is to the psycho- logical story of African Americans. It has taken something more to gain the level of personal growth that many African Americans have reached against the kinds of odds they have faced. Ironically, it seems that the scholars that have been best able to capture these facts have tended to be those in the hu- manities. Thus, the African American novelist and essayist, Ralph Ellison, commented that he set himself the goal as a writer to “commemorate in ﬁction . . . that which I believe to be enduring and abiding in our situation, especially those human qualities which the American Negro has developed despite and in rejection of the obstacles and meannesses imposed upon us” (1964, p. 39; italics added). Furthermore one of the brightest literary lights of the Harlem Renaissance of the 1920s, Langston Hughes, proclaimed that this aspira- tion was not just a characteristic of the literate and well-to-do. In much of his work, he highlighted what he saw as the attitude of triumphing over adversity that was part and parcel of the African American’s everyday life. In one of his most famous poems, he portrays a mother urging her son not to turn back in his struggle for accomplishment, reminding him that “I’se been a-climbin’ on . . . and turnin’ corners” in spite of the fact that “Life for me ain’t been no crystal stair” (1959, p. 187).

In the face of the inability of social science to develop a balanced understanding of African Americans, the mood of the 1960s provided a new impetus for African American psychologists to express their longstanding discontent with American social science (Guthrie, 1998). Some in the new generation of African American scholars chose to reject Western perspectives altogether and move in new conceptual directions. The development of the Afrocentric perspective in psychology is a prime example, and a considerable body of literature has come from this point of view (for example,

Akbar, 1991; L. J. Myers, 1988; Nobles, 1991; J. L. White & Parham, 1990). For others of us, the difﬁculty with the char- acterization of African Americans was not simply a concern about racist trends in American social science. The problem was also that the reigning model in American psychology in general was a “mechanistic” one, a framework that portrayed the individual as a passive being whose responses are primar- ily determined either by environmental factors or by internal physiological and constitutional states.

The behaviorist position had been most clearly identiﬁed with the mechanistic tradition. However, even classical psychoanalytic theory showed clear evidence of such a direction, reﬂected in Freud’s early efforts to develop a “metapsychology” that would describe the basic forces dri- ving human functioning (Holt, 1972). Freud’s thinking about his clinical observations led him to theorize in ways that ac- tually were opposite to the prevailing scientiﬁc viewpoints of the day (Cameron & Rychlak, 1985; Holt, 1972). Still, in the ﬁrst half of the twentieth century, especially, the mechanistic perspectives in Freudian thought were a considerable inﬂu- ence on conceptualizations of the human being. The problem for African Americans in this context has been that when human beings in general are not seen as taking an active, cop- ing stance in life, then the tendency not to see active and creative features in the behavior of African Americans fol- lows naturally. Thus, some of us felt that what was needed was a broader philosophical and conceptual framework within psychology as a whole.

Fortunately, during this time such a perspective was beginning to develop. It was being expressed in independent quarters and in varied language by experimentalists (Sarbin, 1977) and clinicians (Rychlak, 1968). Leona Tyler encapsu- lated the spirit of the times in the opening pages of her book on individuality (1978) by noting that “In psychology fresh winds are blowing, sweeping away overly restrictive as- sumptions, dusting off concepts that had been covered over and neglected, picking up and juxtaposing separate ideas to produce novel combinations. . . . Pluralism is the order of the day” (p. 1). Counterposed against this notion of humankind portrayed in the passive, mechanistic voice was a trend of psychological scholarship that described the “humanistic” view, one portraying the human individual as “an active, responsible agent, not simply a helpless, powerless reagent,” (Chein, 1972 p. 6). The human being in this active image is one “who actively does something with regard to some of the things that happen to him or her . . . [and who] seeks to shape [the] environment rather than passively permit [himself or herself] to be shaped by the latter, a being, in short, who in- sists on injecting [himself or herself] into the causal process of the [surrounding] world” (p. 6).

Anumber of other psychologists were developing outlooks with similar implications for the human image. Abraham Maslow (1968) is familiar to us as one who stressed the need for a “third force” in psychological theory which would sys- tematically acknowledge the importance of human strivings for personal growth and self-realization and would supplement the psychoanalytic and behaviorist positions. Of particular in- terest to me was the work of Harvard psychologist, Robert White, who also leveled a critique at both experimental and psychoanalytic psychologies. He wrote, “Something important is left out when we make drives the operating forces in animal and human behavior (1959, p. 297).” To bring back what is “left out,” White developed his view that organisms, partic- ularly the higher mammals, strive for “competence” in their efforts to interact “effectively” with their environments. As I became more familiar with how these newer currents touched various facets of psychology, I came to feel that such “human- istic” perspectives, broadly deﬁned, offered promise for gain- ing a fuller grasp of the human personality in general. It also seemed to me that such a framework would be more suitable for capturing the functioning of African Americans as well. The trend of thinking that is opposed to a mechanistic view has been growing considerably in the last 15 years, well beyond the earlier terms of this discourse (see, for example, Faulconer & Williams, 1985; Howard & Conway, 1986; Martin & Sugarman, 1999; Messer, Sass, & Woolfolk, 1988; Polking- horne, 1990; Richardson, Fowers, & Guignon, 1999; Robin- son, 1991; Rychlak, 1994].)

In my efforts to ﬁnd a corrective to the traditional psycho- logical view of the African American (Jenkins, 1995), I have drawn on the extensive theoretical and empirical work of Joseph Rychlak and his students (1968, 1994). His frame- work, which he originally called a psychology of “rigorous humanism,” furnishes a detailed conceptual perspective on how persons are able to inject themselves into the “causal process” of the world around. In Rychlak’s view, an agent is a being who can behave so as to go along with, add to, oppose, or disregard sociocultural and/or biological stimulations (Rychlak, 1988). Key ideas that elucidate this deﬁnition are, ﬁrst, that subjectively held intentions and purposes are as im- portant as “objective” environmental contingencies in gov- erning the way people behave. It is in this way that the human individual is an important causal force in his or her own life. As we try to understand the intentions that contribute to an individual’s actions, we necessarily take an “introspective” point of view on that person’s life that is, a view from the actor’s perspective.This is a “teleological” or “telic” perspec- tive on human behavior because it emphasizes that human behavior is always governed in part by the goal or end (telos) the actor has in mind. A second elucidating point is that the