---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a56b1a9c0dc0ff255c3ff30287c105d2d164f136
title: untitled
---
# Whence the Social?

For some social psychologists, the desire for a social social psychology formed out of what was considered the disap- pearing “social” in social psychology, which, even in the case of small group research, seemed to have collapsed into the in- dividual. Ivan Steiner (1974) posed the disappearance of “the social” as a conundrum given that social movements of the 1960s might have led one to expect a more “groupy” social psychology. In examining dissonance theory, attribution the- ory, attitude research, and self-perception theory, Steiner found even further evidence of social psychology’s individu- alistic orientation. Not only had the social moved inside the individual, but social psychology appeared to have lost sight of its compass, all of which, he thought, might account for the “gloomy” “self-reproach” and near “despair” among social psychologists (Steiner, p. 106). It is curious that social psy- chology’s object, the human, had become, at least in some experimental quarters, a rather gloomy-looking soul too— error prone and, if not alienated from himself, given to fail- ures in helping (e.g., Darley & Latane, 1968).Against various “denunciations of laboratory research to damning criticisms

of the ethical and methodological qualities of . . . investiga- tive strategies, and even to suggestions that [social psycholo- gists] forsake . . . scientiﬁc tradition in favor of participation in social movements,” however, Steiner initially held out hope (p. 106). He saw signs of change in social movements; the new decision-making research, such as that of Irving Janis’s concept of groupthink; Eliot Aronson’s interest in T-groups; and, the faint rustle of reviving interest in Hadley Cantril’s 1941 The Psychology of Social Movements (in which mental and social context formed the crucial frame- work for chapters on, for example, the lynch mob, the king- dom of father divine, the Oxford group, the Townsend plan, and the Nazi party). These signs were read as indicative of a rising tide of “collective action” that might displace the “self- reliant individualism” of the 1960s (Steiner, 1974)—only to be regrettably reinterpreted a decade later as a misreading of the power of the individualist thesis (Steiner, 1986).
