data/clean/untitled__chunk1263.md, before:

## From Social Interaction to Social Relationships

An area of intense focus in this period was the social inter- active processes and the ways in which these face-to-face relationships (Hartup & processes develop into social Rubin, 1986; Hinde, 1979). A prominent issue was the un- derstanding of social interaction patterns among infants, children, and their social partners. Emphasis on the mutual regulation of the partners’ behavior, concern about detailed description, and quantiﬁcation of the tempo and ﬂow of the interactive interchange clearly separated the current work from its earlier antecedents (Cohn & Tronick, 1987; Field, 1991). In addition, developmental psychologists in this era went beyond studying the process of interaction per se to use interaction as a window into social relationships (Hinde, 1979).

The most inﬂuential theory exemplifying this theme was John Bowlby’s (1907–1990) theory of attachment (1969, 1973, 1980). This theory offered a new account of the ways in which infants come to form close relations with their care- givers. Instead of a fusion between the constructs of Hull and Freud, it represented a marriage between ethology and psy- choanalysis. Bowlby proposed that attachment has its roots in a set of instinctual infant responses that are important for the protection and survival of the species. The infant responses of crying, smiling, sucking, clinging, and following elicit the parental care and protection that the baby needs and promote contact between the child and the parents. Just as the infant is biologically prepared to respond to the sights, sounds, and nurturance provided by caregivers, parents are biologically prepared to respond to these eliciting behaviors on the part of the infant. As a result of these biologically programmed

responses, both parent and infant develop a mutual attach- ment. From this perspective, attachment is a relationship, not simply a set of behaviors of either the parent or the infant (Sroufe & Fleeson, 1986).

Moreover, in this era, there was an increasing appreciation of the range of characters who play a prominent role in children’s social relationships. The deﬁnition of family expanded to include not only the mother–infant dyad but fa- thers, siblings, and grandparents as well (Dunn & Kendrick, 1982; Lamb, 1975; Tinsley & Parke, 1984).

There was also a growing appreciation of the embedded- ness of children and families in a variety of social systems outside the family, including peers, school, and kin-based networks (Bronfenbrenner, 1986, 1989; Cochran & Brassard, 1979), which led to an interest in peer and other relationships outside the family (Asher & Gottman, 1981). This focus on relationships was part of a more general reorientation away from a focus on the individual as the unit of analysis to dyadic and larger units of analysis.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk1263.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b5730483822c5c58c086cffd1f71971e211d5ead
title: untitled
---
# 212 Developmental Psychology

social learning theory drew much of its theoretical founda- tion from developments in the new cognitive science, with its insights into attention and memory. Not only were drives and drive reduction unnecessary for learning, according to Bandura, but reinforcement was unnecessary either for the acquisition of new responses or the modiﬁcation of old re- sponses. Along with new mechanisms for learning, Bandura dismissed the Freudian baggage of the earlier Sears era. In- stead, a more eclectic theory of socialization, which drew from sociology, anthropology, and other disciplines, served as a guide. In a series of inﬂuential experimental studies, Bandura and his colleagues revitalized the study of social development by reintroducing experimental approaches in studies of the observational learning of aggression (e.g., Bandura, Ross, & Ross, 1961). Unfortunately, like most learning theory approaches, the focus was more on learning and less on development (see Grusec, 1992).
