# The Current Period (1985–Present) 215

increasingly appreciated. Not only are sociologists, anthro- pologists, and historians part of new developmental research teams, but so are neurologists, geneticists, lawyers, and epi- demiologists. It is likely that the interesting issues and ques- tions of the new century will arise at the boundaries between disciplines. The dichotomy between applied and basic re- search is fading rapidly, and child developmentalists are re- turning in increasingly large numbers to their applied roots. For example, research on mental-health issues among chil- dren is prominent, and work on how to improve children’s early development through intervention programs continues to ﬂourish (Coie & Jacobs, 1993).

In terms of developmental assumptions, developmental- ists have become less interested in strong forms of disconti- nuity organized around stage constructs. Rather, there is growing recognition that the course of development may vary markedly even for presumably related concepts. But there is also recognition that the entire issues of qualitative or quantitative change may depend on one’s point of observa- tion. As Siegler indicated, “When viewed from afar, many changes in children’s thinking appear discontinuous; when viewed from close-up, the same changes often appear as part of a continuous, gradual progression” (1991, p. 50).

Researchers in the 1980s and 1990s have taken seriously a life-span developmental perspective (Baltes, 1987). In part, this view emerges from a recognition that the social context provided by caregivers varies as a function of the location of the adults along their own life-course trajectory (Parke, 1988). The earlier view was that variations in parenting behavior were relatively independent of adult development. Evidence of this shift comes from a variety of sources, in- cluding studies of the impact of the timing of parenthood and the effects of maternal (and paternal) employment, job satis- faction, and work involvement on children’s development (Parke & Buriel, 1998). In addition, there is a serious return to the study of aging (Baltes, 1987; Salthouse, 1985), espe- cially the study of speed of processing, memory, and intel- ligence (e.g., Hertzog, 1989) and social behavior (e.g., Brubaker, 1990; Hanson & Carpenter, 1994).

Consistent with the shift toward a life-span view is the reevaluation of the role of critical periods in development. Recent evidence suggests that a modiﬁed version of sensi- tive, if not critical, periods is likely to emerge in contrast to a view of unlimited plasticity across development (Bornstein, 1989). For example, Rieser, Hill, Talor, Bradﬁeld, and Rosen (1992) have demonstrated that adult skill in spatial represen- tation seems to require early perceptual learning experiences that involve self-produced movement. Johnson and Newport (1989) found evidence for a sensitive period in grammatical mastery in acquiring a second language. The question for this