---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 93b28d50b0db1530418efb056f350ac7cf35e0ab
title: untitled
---
## Clinical Practice, Counseling, and Feminist Therapy

PsychiatricAssociation voted to remove homosexuality from the DSM. However, a category called “ego-dystonic homo- sexuality”wassubstitutedinstead.)The1980editionreﬂected this change. Many feminists have been concerned that the di- agnostic criteria for Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder do not distinguish it from premenstrual distress, a condition experi- enced in some degree by as many as 80% of women. Mary Parlee’s (1994) elegant account of the struggle over this diag- nostic category reveals how the economic interests of phar- maceutical companies and the biomedical profession handily overruled the scientiﬁc and social-scientiﬁc evidence.

BorderlinePersonalityDisorder(BPD) isanotherdiagnos- tic category of special concern, if only because three times as many women as men receive this diagnosis (Becker, 1997). This diagnosis carries with it a variety of negative expec- tations: Individuals with BPD are said to be difﬁcult and trou- blesome therapy clients, unlikely to make progress. Yet the criteria for BPD are vague: for example, “inappropriate” anger, “marked” reactivity of mood, “markedly unstable” self-image. It is left to therapists to judge whether clients’ behavior reaches the threshold for diagnosis.Also, the symp- toms overlap with the symptoms of other disorders. A diag- nosis of BPD is often mistakenly given to women who have experienced sexual or physical abuse and who should be di- agnosed as suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (Herman, 1992). This diagnostic error prevents women from receiving appropriate treatment.

Apart from formal diagnoses, therapists continually make judgments in the course of treatment: They set goals for ther- apy, they evaluate clients’ progress, and they specify what is healthy functioning for individuals, couples, and families. Feminists have investigated how gender meanings and ethnic and class differences inﬂect these judgments. Judgments about healthy sexual functioning, for example, rest on the theory of the Human Sexual Response Cycle put forward by Masters and Johnson in 1966. Indeed, the DSM diagnostic categories of sexual dysfunction, though purportedly atheo- retical, rest on this implicit foundation. As Leonore Tiefer (1995) has shown, this theory privileges forms of sexual be- havior preferred by men and overlooks or trivializes many sources of pleasure that women say are important. Also, counselors and therapists who work with clients from impov- erished backgrounds may unwittingly presume that such in- dividuals have access to resources for coping and to avenues of judicial redress that in fact are limited to afﬂuent and white members of society (Fine, 1983). Some feminists have chal- lenged deﬁnitions of autonomy and its centrality as a cri- terion of mental health. Autonomy may not be possible for individuals in subordinated positions. Nor is it universally re- garded as desirable; in many cultural groups, collective

257
