data/clean/untitled__chunk0587.md, before:

# 90 Sensation and Perception

program; hence, the name computational theories is often used. These are computations associated with certain algo- rithms that are presumed to be innate or preprogrammed; thus, this is not an inferential process but rather application of a ﬁxed processing algorithm, making this viewpoint some- what reminiscent of the ideas of Kant.

While computational perception has a certain allure for the burgeoning ﬁeld of cognitive science, and there are still some advocates of direct perception, the vast majority of per- ceptual researchers and theorists seem to have accepted a compromise position that accepts the distinction between sensation and perception. Correspondence between percep- tion and reality is maintained because there is a rich source of information in the direct sensory inputs (in other words, sensation is reliable). However, there are some ambiguities that can be corrected by using experiential and inferential processes to derive the perceived object from the available sensory data (in other words, there are nonsensory contribu- tions that shape the ﬁnal conscious percept).

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk0587.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: eda9d3c84e1dd1d7425327fb4deac036530d3dae
title: untitled
---
## Sensation, Perception, Reason, and Cognition 89

concept formation, language, and problem solving (all of which simply take the act of perception for granted), other in- vestigators include the processes of attention and the con- scious representation and interpretation of stimuli as part of the cognitive process. At the very least, cognitive theories of perception attempt to integrate memory and reasoning processes into the perceptual act.

All of these viewpoints suggest that reasoning processes and experience can add to the perceptual experience and that there is much more to perception than is available in the stim- ulus array. There is, however, one theoretical approach that harkens back to the early sensist approaches and includes a relatively emphatic denial of contributions from reason or intellect. This position was offered by James J. Gibson (1908–1979) and is called direct perception (e.g., Gibson, 1979). Like the early sensist viewpoints, it begins with the premise that all the information needed to form the conscious percept is available in the stimuli that reach our receptors. For example, even though the image in our eye is continually changing, there are certain aspects of the stimulation pro- duced by any particular object or environmental situation that are invariant predictors of certain properties, such as the ac- tual size, shape, or distance of the object being viewed. These perceptual invariants are ﬁxed properties of the stimulus even though the observer may be moving or changing viewpoints, causing continuous changes in the optical image that reaches the eye. This stimulus information is automatically extracted by the perceptual system because it is relevant to survival. Invariants provide information about affordances, which are simply action possibilities afforded or available to the ob- server, such as picking the object up, going around it, and so forth. Gibson argued that this information is directly avail- able to the perceiver and was not dependent on any higher- level cognitive processing or computation.

For researchers who are interested in developing theories in the form of computer programs and those who are inter- ested in creating computational systems that might allow ma- chines to directly interpret sensory information in the same manner that a human observer might, direct perception is at- tractive. Typical of such theorists is David Marr (1982), who began with the general presumption made in direct percep- tion that all of the information needed is in the stimulus in- puts. Marr’s approach adds to direct perception the process of piecing together information based on some simple dimen- sions in the stimulus, such as boundaries and edges, line end- ings, particular patterns where stimuli meet, and so forth, to deﬁne objects and spatial relationships. This process of inter- pretation or synthesis is believed to require a number of com- putations and several stages of analysis that often can be speciﬁed as mathematical equations or steps in a computer
