# GEORGE W. ALBEE

Opportunities in psychology were slim for African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, Native American, and other minorities, before the middle of the twentieth century. Since its founding in 1892, American psychology had al- ways been a white, male, experimentally-oriented academic discipline. Its association, the American Psychological Asso- ciation (APA), was run by presidents, boards, and council members from Academe and non-academic applied psychol- ogists were not numerous. Most of those calling themselves “clinical psychologists” worked in schools and, occasionally, in state mental hospitals and in institutions for the retarded and epileptic.

American Psychologist). Psychology was a laboratory sci- ence before World War II and not particularly popular with undergraduates. Then World War II suddenly created a demand for people with skills in testing, personnel classiﬁca- tion, and clinical interventions. These demands were multi- plied after the war when many of the millions of veterans were in need of treatment for “mental disorders.” I have told this story in some detail (Albee, 1998). The post-war explo- sion in numbers of clinical psychologist occurred in a context of medical domination and the insistence by psychiatry on the established medical model and traditional treatment in medical-psychiatric clinics and hospitals.

Doctoral programs in psychology supplied new (white male) faculty members for universities as replacements were needed. Recruitment involved an “Old Boy” system of phone calls to colleagues. Jobs in universities were rarely ad- vertised. College jobs often asked for “Christian gentlemen” candidates (see “Positions Available” in the early years of the

Between 1920 and 1966, the 10 most prestigious depart- ments of psychology in the United States awarded just eight PhDs in psychology to Negro [sic] candidates while confer- ring 3,767 doctorates. Six of these 10 departments had not had a single Negro PhD. Of all programs, fewer than 1% of the doctorates were awarded to minorities (Albee, 1969).

The 1954 Supreme Court Brown vs. Board decision set in motion a mammoth pattern of change. The late 1950s saw Governor Faubus resist school integration in Little Rock, Arkansas, and President Eisenhower reluctantly used federal troops to uphold the court’s decision. School busing led to riots in Boston.

The 1960s saw a continuation of great social ferment and change in America. The Atlanta bus boycott, the lunch counter sit-ins, the protest demonstrations, the freedom rid- ers, the school desegregation actions of the federal govern- ment, the marches led by Martin Luther King Jr. and others, the whole civil rights movement, the Great Society, all com- bined to change America, and in the process to change psychology. The escalating protests against the Vietnam War were occurring at the same time as the civil rights demonstra- tions, often on the same campuses. Some of the goals of African American students were the opposite of the goals of the white students. TheAfricanAmerican students wanted more admissions, more scholarships, more socially-relevant classes. The white students, like Students for a Democratic Society,wantedanendtoROTCandtosupportforthewarin- cluding the military draft and the increasing military presence in Vietnam. They (the white protestors) were often willing to close the universities. In the late-1960s, the new Association of Black Psychologists (ABPsi) began pushing for changes in APAthat would lead to support for moreAfricanAmerican admissions to graduate schools and to a sharing of power in theAPAgovernance.

At APA’s 1968 convention in San Francisco, ABPsi pre- sented a “Statement of Concerns” to theAPACouncil.At that same time, all watched on TV the “police riot” at the Democ- ratic party’s presidential nominating convention in Chicago. As a direct result, the APA Council voted to move the 1969 APA convention out of Chicago. The ABPsi invited APA to meetinWatts,asectionofLosAngeles,andtherewasactually sometalkofthispossibility,butlogisticalconsiderationsledto the choice of Washington, DC, despite threats of a lawsuit by Chicagovendersovercontractviolations.Actually,becauseof the fortuitous August timing, APA was the ﬁrst of many national organizations to shun Chicago for meetings.

Also at the 1968 San Francisco convention, there was a momentous confrontation. On the last day of the convention, Tuesday afternoon, the APA board of directors was meeting, discussing the many issues raised by the move of the next convention, but also the increasing demands from ABPsi, (and from radical groups like Psychologists for a Democratic Society and Psychologists for Social Action) pushing for increased civil rights, an end to segregation and support for a stronger minority presence in psychology. During the meeting, the door opened and in walked the entire board of