---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: abcc602e3dbc100f3acb7339b24e6c31161ee8ec
title: untitled
---
# Individual Differences

Although recapitulation theory inﬂuenced Hall’s approach to child study, the direct inﬂuence of evolutionary theory on child study was slight (Charlesworth, 1992). However, the theory of evolution strongly inﬂuenced the study of individ- ual differences. For natural selection to serve as the primary mechanism of evolution, variation in species populations was necessary for the selection of traits that were the basis for adaptation and survival within different and changing envi- ronments. Francis Galton, a cousin of Darwin, contributed to the history of psychology through his measures of physical and mental characteristics of individuals who visited his Anthropometric Laboratory.

The measures of physical characteristics such as head size, arm length, height and weight, and performance charac- teristics such as reaction time and sensory acuity, used by Galton and adapted from the tasks of the psychological labo- ratories, were employed as mental tests of intelligence. Head size, for example was (falsely) assumed to indicate brain size and intellectual capacity, and speed of responses and visual acuity were assumed to indicate adaptability and survival capability. The term intelligence came to be used to designate differences among individuals in their capacity for such

complex behaviors as reasoning and problem solving rather than to denote differences among species in adapting to the environment, the more common use of the term in the nine- teenth century.

James McKeen Cattell, who had studied with Hall at Johns Hopkins before earning his PhD with Wundt, pur- sued his interest in individual variation, labeled “ganz Amerikanisch” by Wundt (Boring, 1950), while in Francis Galton’s London laboratory. Cattell returned to establish a laboratory at Columbia University and adapted laboratory tasks familiar to him from both Leipzig and London to iden- tify and measure differences in reaction time, sensory sensi- tivity, time estimation, and memory span in undergraduate students (Sokal, 1987; Tuddenham, 1962). Like Galton, he theorized that such tasks as reaction time, sensory acuity, memory, and apprehension spans would reveal an individ- ual’s intellectual abilities. His attempt to relate scores on these tasks to academic performance demonstrated little rela- tionship between the performance scores on the laboratory tests to academic performance in courses at Columbia (Sokal, 1987) but nevertheless represents an early effort to measure the intelligence of individuals.

Assessing individual differences among human beings did not necessarily result in appropriate conclusions about the consequences of evolution because of the importance of social and cultural factors in determining differences among individuals. For example, Galton’s study of sex differences in psychological characteristics reﬂected social and cultural views of the capabilities and proper roles for women and men rather than differences that could be attributed to evolution- ary forces. This bias was common at the time and addressed by the research of one of James R. Angell’s graduate students, Helen Bradford Thompson. Her dissertation, com- pleted at the University of Chicago in 1900 and later pub- lished as The Mental Traits of Sex (1903), was the ﬁrst systematic, experimental investigation of sex differences in motor ability, sensations, intellect, and affect. Careful, de- tailed analysis of the results led to her conclusion that “the psychological differences of sex seem to be largely due, not to difference of average capacity, nor to difference in type of mental activity, but to differences in the social inﬂuences brought to bear on the developing individual from early infancy to adult years” (p. 182).

Hall, too, had employed evolutionary arguments to bolster stereotyped ideas about the psychological nature and proper roles of men and women. His rather unﬂattering assessment of women’s abilities attracted little argument from American male psychologists of the time (see Diehl, 1986; Shields, 1975) and played a role in denying opportunities for graduate study and professional employment for women (Milar, 2000).
