---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d313755e045586e7ab026c330c116326467a3337
title: untitled
---
# American Organizational Efforts

A landmark event for health psychology within organized psychology was a report prepared by William Schoﬁeld for the board of directors of theAmerican Psychological Associ- ation (APA): The Role of Psychology in the Delivery of Health Services (Schoﬁeld, 1969). This essay had a much broader focus than its title implies, as it addressed both theo- retical and research aspects of the discipline that had implica- tions for “the promotion and maintenance of health, the prevention and treatment of illness” (p. 565). Schoﬁeld noted how organized psychology had been implicitly dualistic, often contrasting mental health with physical health and dis- tributing more discipline resources to the former. For exam- ple, his examination of articles indexed in Psychological Abstracts for 1966 and 1967 found three focuses in health: schizophrenia, psychotherapy, and mental retardation. Alto- gether, major and much more numerous health problems such as pain, surgery, heart disease, cancer, smoking, and medical hospitalization accounted for less than 10% of publications in those years! He noted that only a smattering of individual psychologists pursued interests in medical nonpsychiatric problems and opined that with the possible exception of involvement with the physically handicapped, the discipline

had only “superﬁcially mined” the area of the psychology of physical illness. He also predicted that this would not change without change in the education and training of future psychologists.

Scoﬁeld argued cogently for psychology to view itself as a health science and a broadly based health profession (not just a mental health profession); yet it would be another 30 years before this perspective became mainstream within organized psychology.

In 1973, another seminal event occurred when the APA Board of Scientiﬁc Affairs established the Task Force on Health Research upon the recommendation of the Committee on Newly Emerging Areas of Research. Miriam Kelty (who in 2000 received a Career Service Award for her work in health psychology) served asAPAstaff liaison.Three decades ago the societal context was increased public concern about rising health costs and deﬁciencies in the way health care was delivered in the United States.Although health had become a social issue and was no longer solely the province of medi- cine, psychology as a discipline was described as “surpris- ingly slow to recognize and accept research challenges in this problem area. Possibly the historical prominence of mental health as a focus for applied psychology has overshadowed other types of health-oriented psychological research” (APA, 1976, p. 264). The task force did identify nearly 500 psychol- ogists with health research interests, but half of those were employed outside of health settings and many were not mem- bers of theAPA, having resigned because they found no divi- sional afﬁliation compatible with their interests. Moreover, their research tended to be published in non-APA journals, a number of which were not even included in the Psychological Abstracts Search and Retrieval (PASAR) database and thus not available to the averageAPAmember.

The Task Force on Health Research found that approxi- mately 40 health research articles were published per year between 1966 and 1973. Of those, about 66% were related to psychobiological aspects of health (stress, psychosomatics, social and environmental factors, effects of illness on behav- ior), 18% dealt with health care delivery issues (mostly speciﬁc aspects of treatment and rehabilitation rather than systems research), and 16% were studies of attitudes relevant to health and health care. To foster the development of knowledge in this area the task force made a series of recom- mendations: (a) increase awareness among psychologists of support for health research from agencies other than the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), (b) eliminate mind–body dualism in conceptualizing human behavior by adopting more integrated models, (c) develop graduate edu- cation programs to promote early awareness of opportunities for research and practice, and (d) “ﬁnd a suitable home within

APA for . . . a distinct interest group that is likely to grow and has need for the basic organizational supports afforded by our major scientiﬁc and professional society” (APA, 1976, p. 272). A direct outcome of the Task Force on Health Re- search was the 1975 organization of the Section on Health Research in the APA’s Division of Psychologists in Public Service. Concomitantly, David Clayman and John Linton were facilitating communication among clinical psycholo- gists working in medical settings by developing the Medical Psychologist’s Network and a related newsletter, using the term medical psychology to describe their work.

The years 1977–1978 were a high point for the formaliza- tion of health psychology within the discipline. Given the growth in the ﬁeld and the need to ﬁnd an organization to integrate those with both research and practice interests, in 1977 members successfully petitioned for a new division within the APA. At the annual meeting in August, the Divi- sion of Health Psychology (Division 38) was formally installed by the APA Council of Representatives with Joseph D. Matarazzo as its ﬁrst president. In his charter presidential address one year later, Matarazzo provided the foundation for the ﬁrst deﬁnition of the ﬁeld to be adopted by the division. In recognition of health psychology’s need to function within an interdisciplinary context, two other societies were also formed in 1978, with psychologists playing a major role in their foundation. The Academy of Behavioral Medi- cine was established in April with Neal E. Miller as its ﬁrst president, and on November 16, the ﬁrst organizational meeting of the Society of Behavioral Medicine was held in Chicago. (The International Society of Behavioral Medicine was founded in 1990.) Also in 1978, the Journal of Behav- ioral Medicine was established, with W. Doyle Gentry as its editor.

One might question why psychologists promoted societies and publications with a focus on behavioral medicine versus psychosomatic medicine, the term previously more common. As noted previously, a group of disaffected biomedical and behavioral scientists had met in 1977 at Yale to formally establish the ﬁeld of behavioral medicine, having been frus- trated by the inadequacies of traditional conceptualizations of psychosomatic medicine.

The ﬁrst issue of the Division of Health Psychology’s scientiﬁc journal, Health Psychology, was quickly organized and published in 1982 under the editorship of George C. Stone. Given the burgeoning of research, it quickly moved from a quarterly publication to a bimonthly one in 1984. By 2000, Health Psychology had more individual subscriptions than any APA journal other than American Psychologist and Monitor, publications that are provided as part of member- ship in the APA. In 2000, the Division of Health Psychology
