# 130 Cognition and Learning

implementation of programs in a brain or a computer may be safely ignored at the cognitive and algorithm levels, while, according to the connectionist view, theorizing at higher levels must be constrained by the nature of the machine that will carry out the computations.

The second main issue concerns the algorithmic level of intelligence. William James (1890) ﬁrst addressed the funda- mental problem. James observed that when we ﬁrst learn a skill, we must consciously think about what to do; as we be- come more experienced, consciousness deserts the task and we carry it out automatically, without conscious thought. One of the attractions of the symbolic paradigm is that it ﬁts our conscious experience of thought: We think one thought at a time to the solution of a problem. The symbolic paradigm assumes that once a task becomes mastered and unconscious, we continue to think one thought at a time with consciousness subtracted. On the other hand, connectionism suggests that nonconscious thought may be very different from conscious thought.

Smolensky (1988) analyzed the architecture of cognition from the perspective of how thoughtful processes become intuitive actions. Smolensky’s framework distinguishes two levels, the conscious processor and the intuitive processor. The conscious processor is engaged when we consciously think about a task or problem. However, as a skill becomes mastered, it moves into the intuitive processor; we just “do it” without conscious thought. Driving an automobile over a fa- miliarrouterequireslittleifanyconsciousattention,whichwe turnovertolisteningtotheradioorhavingaconversationwith a passenger. Moreover, not everything the intuitive processor performswasonceconscious.Manyofthefunctionsofthein- tuitive processor are innate, such as recognizing faces or sim- ple patterns, while some abilities can be learned without ever becoming conscious, such as pure procedural learning in the absence of declarative learning, such as bicycle riding.

When it becomes automatic, driving or bicycling is per- formed by the intuitive processor, but what happens during the transition from conscious thought to intuition is a difﬁcult issue to resolve. To see why, we must distinguish between rule-following and rule-governed behavior.

Physical systems illustrate how rule-governed behavior need not be rule-following behavior. The earth revolves around the sun in an elliptical path governed by Newton’s laws of motion and gravity. However, the earth does not fol- low these laws in the sense that it computes them and adjusts its course to comply with them. The computer guiding a spacecraft does follow Newton’s laws, as they are written into its programs, but the motions of natural objects are governed by physical laws without following them by inter- nal processing.

The following example suggests that the same distinction may apply to human behavior. Imagine seeing a cartoon drawing of an unfamiliar animal called a“wug.” If I show you two of them, you will say, “There are two wugs.” Shown two pictures of a creature called “wuk,’’ you will say, “There are two wuks.” In saying the plural, your behavior is governed by the rule of English morphology that to make a noun plural, you add an -s. Although you probably did not apply the rule consciously, it is not implausible to believe that you did as a child. However, your behavior was also governed by a rule of English phonology that an -s following a voiced consonant (e.g., /g/) is also voiced—wugz—while an -s following an un- voiced consonant (such as /k/) is also unvoiced—wuks. It is unlikely you ever consciously knew this rule at all.

Having developed the distinction between rule-governed andrule-followingbehaviors,wecanstatethealgorithm-level distinction between the symbol-system and the connectionist architectures of cognition. All psychologists accept the idea that human behavior is rule governed, because if it were not, there could be no science of human behavior. The issue sepa- rating the symbol-system hypothesis from connectionism concernswhetherandwhenhumanbehaviorisrulefollowing. According to the symbol system view, both the conscious processor and the intuitive processor are rule-following and rule-governed systems.When we think or decide consciously, we formulate rules and follow them in behaving. Intuitive thinking is likewise rule following. In the case of behaviors, that were once consciously followed, the procedures of the in- tuitiveprocessorarethesameastheproceduresoncefollowed in consciousness, but with awareness subtracted. In the case of intuitive behaviors, the process is truncated, with rules being formulated and followed directly by the intuitive processor. Connectionists hold that human behavior is rule following only at the conscious level. In the intuitive proces- sor, radically different processes are taking place (Smolensky, 1988). Advocates of the symbol-system view are somewhat likeTolman,whobelieved thatunconsciousratsuse cognitive maps as conscious lost humans do. Connectionists are like Hull, who believed that molar rule-governed behavior is at a lower level, the strengthening and weakening of input-output connections. After all, Thorndike called his theory connec- tionism 80 years ago.

The intuitive processor lies between the conscious mind— the conscious processor—and the brain that implements human intelligence. According to the symbol-system ac- count, the intuitive processor carries out step-by-step uncon- scious thinking that is essentially identical to the step-by-step conscious thinking of the conscious processor, and so Clark (1989) calls the symbol-system account the mind’s-eye view of cognition. According to connectionism, the intuitive

processor carries out nonsymbolic parallel processing similar to the neural parallel processing of the brain, and Clark calls it the brain’s-eye view of cognition.

Historically, connectionism represents more than simply a new technical approach to cognitive psychology. From the time of the ancient Greeks, Western philosophy assumed that having knowledge is knowing rules and that rational action consists in the following of rules. Human intuition has been deprecated as at best following rules unconsciously, and at worst as based on irrational impulse. Consistent with this view, psychology has been the search for the rule-governed springs of human behavior. But connectionism might vindi- cate human intuition as the secret of human success and re- habilitate a dissident tradition in philosophy—represented, for example, by Friedrich Nietzsche—that scorns being bound by rules as an inferior way of life (Dreyfus & Dreyfus, 1986). In addition, psychologists and philosophers are com- ing to believe that thought guided by emotion is wiser than pure logic (Damasio, 1994).

In the late 1980s, connectionism and the symbol-system view of learning and cognition acted as rivals, seemingly recreating the great theoretical battles of behaviorism’s GoldenAge.However,around1990amodusvivendireuniﬁed the ﬁeld of cognitive science. The two architectures of cogni- tion were reconciled by regarding the human mind as a hybrid of the two (Clark, 1989). At the neural level, learning and cognition must be carried out by connectionist-type pro- cesses, since the brain is a collection of simple but massively interconnected units. Yet as we have learned, physically dif- ferent computational systems may implement the same pro- grams. Therefore, it is possible that, although the brain is a massively parallel computer, the human mind in its rational aspects is a serial processor of representations, especially when thought is conscious. The more automatic and uncon- scious (intuitive) aspects of the human mind are connectionist in nature. Connectionist theories thus have a valuable role to play in being the vital interface between symbol-system models of rational, rule-following thought, and intuitive, nonlinear, nonsymbolic thought.