# 98 Sensation and Perception

advantage of having large individual cells that receive light (photoreceptor cells) and long, well-differentiated optic nerve ﬁbers. In the 1930s he recorded electrical response from single ﬁbers of the horseshoe crab’s optic nerve and found that the neurons generated a response frequency that was proportional to the intensity of light shining on the pho- toreceptors. This is the sort of signal that had been expected. However, later work showed that under some circumstances shining a light on an adjacent receptor could decrease (in- hibit) the response rate in a stimulated cell. This was the in- hibitory response activity predicted by Mach and needed by Hering’s theory. However, things became much more com- plicated when he began to study the more complex neural vi- sual system of the frog. Now he found that optic nerve ﬁbers were activated selectively, according to the type of light, and varied with brightness or movement. Further, under certain circumstances, increasing light stimulation might actually decrease neural response. This discovery convinced re- searchers that, even at the level of the retina, some sort of neural algebra could be taking place. Perhaps the sensory in- puts were being processed and reﬁned before being sent to higher neural centers.

At this same time, researchers were beginning to modify the doctrine of speciﬁc nerve energies because it still seemed to suffer from the major limitation pointed out by some of its early detractors. To put it into its simplest form, we perceive an indeﬁnite number of different sensory qualities in each modality and we do not have an inﬁnity of neural pathways. For example, in the visual realm, a stimulus will have a color, size, location, and state of motion. In addition, the stimulus will contain features such as contour elements that delineate its boundaries, and each of these will have a length and orientation. There may also be prominent deﬁning elements such as angles or concave or convex curves, and so forth. The doctrine of speciﬁc nerve energies had evolved from simply positing a separate channel for each sensory modality to a supposition that there is a separate channel for each sensory quality or at least a limited set of qualities. While this is not practical at the input and transmission stages of perception, it is possible if we consider the end points or terminations in the brain and if, as Hartline seemed to be suggesting, there is some form of preprocessing that occurs before information is sent down speciﬁc channels.

Inthe1950sStephenKufﬂer’slaboratoryatJohnsHopkins University was studying the visual response of retinal neu- rons using microelectrodes. It was in 1958 that two young researchers who had come to work with Kufﬂer met: David H. Hubel (b. 1926) and Torsten N. Wiesel (b. 1924). They decided to look at the response of single neurons in the visual cortex to see if they had any differential responses to stimuli

presented to the eye. In experiments with cats and monkeys, Hubel and Wiesel were able to show that varying the spatial location of a light spot caused variations in the response of the cortical cell in either an excitatory or inhibitory manner. By carefully mapping these changes in response to points of light, they later were able to demonstrate that there were complex cells in the brain that were “tuned” to speciﬁc visual orientations. This meant that they responded well to lines in one orientation and poorly or not at all to others with differ- ent degrees of inclination. Other cells responded to move- ment in a particular direction, and some were even tuned for particular speed of movement across the retina. There were even hypercomplex cells that responded to particular angles, concavity versus convexity, and lines of particular length. In a series of clever experiments, they also injected radioac- tively labeled amino acids into the brain under speciﬁc conditions of stimulation to show that there is a complex cytoarchitecture in the visual cortex. Feature-speciﬁc cells are vertically organized into columns and separated accord- ing to which eye is providing the input. The act of vision, then, involved a decomposition of an input into an array of features that then, somehow or other, would be resynthesized into the conscious percept.

Hubel and Wiesel’s work was initially greeted with skepti- cism when it was announced in the 1960s. It seemed to be ex- panding the doctrine of speciﬁc nerve energies to a ridiculous degree. Adversaries suggested that, taken to the limit, one might argue that every perceived quality and feature in vision might require its own tuned neural analyzer. Thus, one might eventually ﬁnd a “grandmother cell” or a “yellow Cadillac detector” that responds only to these particular stimuli. The strange truth here is that these critics were correct, and in the late 1970s, Charles Gross’s laboratory at Princeton Univer- sity began to ﬁnd cortical neurons that are extremely special- ized to identify only a small range of particular targets with special signiﬁcance. For instance, one neuron in monkeys seems to produce its most vigorous response when the stimu- lus is in the shape of a monkey’s paw. Gross, Rocha-Miranda, and Bender (1972) report that one day they discovered a cell in the cerebral cortex of a monkey that seemed unresponsive to any light stimulus. When they waved their hand in front of the stimulus screen, however, they elicited a very vigorous re- sponse from the previously unresponsive neuron. They then spent the next 12 hours testing various paper cutouts in an at- tempt to ﬁnd out what feature triggered this speciﬁc unit. When the entire set of stimuli were ranked according to the strength of the response they produced, they could not ﬁnd any simple physical dimension that correlated with this rank order. However, the rank order of stimuli, in terms of their ability to drive the cell, did correlate with their apparent

similarity (at least for the experimenters) to the shadow of a monkey’s hand.Adecade later there were an accumulation of reports of ﬁnding cells that are tuned for speciﬁc faces, namely monkey faces in the monkey cortex and sheep faces in sheep cortex (e.g., Bruce, Desimone, & Gross, 1981; Kendrick & Baldwin, 1987). One wonders what Johannes Müller would think of his theory now.