---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 78d33d3dd9362665c4d0eebc2973abbd5dd04987
title: untitled
---
# 48 Biological Psychology

and his student Tichener in their attempts to measure the at- tributes of sensation.

Tichener identiﬁed the elements of conscious experience as quality, intensity, extensity, protensity (duration), and at- tensity (clearness) (see Tichener, 1898). But for all their at- tempts at scientiﬁc observation, the basic approach of Wundt and Tichener was introspection, but other observers (e.g., Külpe at Bonn) had different introspections. Boring studied with Tichener and was for many years chair of the psychol- ogy department at Harvard. He attempted to recast Tichener’s views in more modern terms (The Physical Dimensions of Consciousness, 1933) by emphasizing that the dimensions listed earlier related to discrimination of physical stimuli. His student S. S. Stevens showed that trained observers could re- liably form judgments of sounds in terms of pitch, loudness, “volume,” and “density” (see also Boring, 1950).

At Harvard, Stevens later introduced an important new method of psychophysics termed direct magnitude estimation. The subject simply assigned a number to a stimulus, a higher one to a more intense stimulus and a lower number to one that waslessintense.Somewhatsurprisinglythismethodgavevery reliable results. Using this method, Stevens found that the properrelationshipbetweenstimulusintensityandsensationis not logarithmic, as Fechner had argued, but rather a power function: The sensation, that is, sensory magnitude, equaled thestimulusintensityraisedtosomepower,theexponentrang- ingfromlessthantogreaterthanone.Thisformulationproved very useful in both psychophysical and physiological studies of sensory processes (see Stevens, 1975).

The key point of all this work on psychophysics is that it is notnecessarytobeconcernedatallaboutsubjectiveexperience or introspection. The observer simply pushes a button or states a word or number to describe his or her judgment of the stimu- lus.Themoretheobserverpractices,themorereliablethejudg- ments become and the more different observers generate the same results. Psychophysics had become purely behavioral. AsHilgard(1987)notes,Fechnerwastroubledbytheques- tion of where the transformation between stimulus and judg- ment occurs. Fechner distinguished between “inner” and “outer”psychophysics,outerreferringtotherelationbetween themindandexternalstimuliandinnertotherelationbetween the mind and excitation of the sensory apparatus. Fechner opted for a direct correspondence between excitation and sen- sation,asurprisinglymodernview.Indeed,Stevens(1961)ar- gued with evidence that the psychophysical transformation occursatthereceptor–ﬁrst-orderneurons,atleastforintensity. We take an example from the elegant studies of Mount- castle, Poggio, andWerner (1963). Here they recorded the ac- tion potentials of a neuron in the somatosensory thalamus of a monkey driven by extension of the contralateral knee. The

relation between degrees of joint angle ((cid:1)) and frequency of neuron discharge (F) is F (cid:2) 13.9(cid:1)0.429 (cid:3) 24, where 13.9 and 24 are constants determined by conditions. So the power ex- ponent is 0.429, within the general range of exponents for psychophysical judgments of the relation between joint angle and sensation of movement. In other words, the relationship is established by ascending sensory neuron activity before the level of the cerebral cortex, presumably at the receptor– ﬁrst-order neuron.

The modern era of psychophysics can perhaps be dated to a seminal paper by John Swets in 1961: Is there a sensory threshold? His answer was no. He and David Green devel- oped the theory and methodology of signal detection theory (Green & Swets, 1966). There is always noise present with signals. When one attempts to detect a signal in noise, the cri- teria used will determine the outcome. This approach has proved immensely useful in ﬁelds ranging from the telephone to psychophysical studies in animals to detection of structural failures in aircraft wings to detection of breast cancer. But where is the mind in decision theory? It has disappeared. The initial hope that psychophysics could measure the mind has been reduced to considerations of observer bias. A similar conclusion led to the downfall of introspection.
