data/clean/untitled__chunk2137.md, before:

# SUMMARY

This analysis of I-O psychology’s history demonstrates that the rise of the discipline during the past 100 years was the

result of conﬂuences of dynamic external (socioeconomic, business, legal, military, technology, psychology) and inter- nal forces (individuals, theories, and applications) at various times. These forces, along with other inﬂuences (e.g., inter- disciplinary ﬁelds), interacted in shaping both science and practice. Several trends from then to now can be summarized: (a) I-O psychologists are more proactive and less reactive, (b) both employee goals and organizational goals are now considered rather than only organizational goals, (c) the dis- cipline is a blending of science and practice, (d) intricate and integrated approaches are used to understand humans in the workplace (i.e., broad theories and models take into consideration the complexity of cognition and behavior in or- ganizations) instead of a simple view, (e) specialties within the discipline now exist, (f) an increasing objectivity and greater accuracy of measurement (statistics) are emphasized, (g) more and better trained I-O psychologists and teachers are available, (h) more research is conducted on employee be- haviors (personality traits, organizational citizenship behav- iors) and contexts (work teams, international contexts) rather than on theoretical constructs (e.g., motivation), and (i) the underlying theme, improving the workplace and work lives, remains steadfast in the discipline.

CONCLUSION: WHAT HAVE WE LEARNED?

A better understanding of what I-O psychologists did and why they did what they did was obtained from examining the sociohistorical context of the discipline. Have I-O psycholo- gists made a difference in the workplace? According to Katzell and Austin (1992),

I-O psychology has become a viable scientiﬁc discipline that has added much to society’s knowledge about work behavior. . . . I/O psychology has become an important contributor to manage- ment. . . . I/O psychology has been contributing to the general well-being of American society. It has done so by helping to select people for work for which they are suited, training and developing them to be more effective in their work and careers, reducing bias in the employment of the disadvantaged, improv- ing safety and comfort at work, and enhancing the quality of work life. (pp. 822–823)

What can the past teach about the future of I-O psychol- ogy? External and internal forces will continue to affect the work of I-O psychologists. Cascio (1995) identiﬁed several rapid changes relative to the world of work (e.g., global com- petition, explosion of information technology, reengineering of business processes) that have important implications for the science and practice in I-O psychology (i.e., job analysis,

employee selection, training and development, performance appraisal, organizational development). When asked to iden- tify factors that will inﬂuence future developments in I-O psychology, SIOP president (2001–2002) William H. Macey remarked,

Technologyisaneasyanswer.Theshiftinwork(andeducational) interpersonal relationships occurring because of technology implementation may be another. Also, in a related sense, the meaning of work itself will change and by deﬁnition so will our practice and science. . . . [A] disproportionate degree of our at- tention may change from science to technology. Also, the hard part of our profession will be in maintaining the scientiﬁc integrity of our work as we move quickly to apply new technol- ogy and media. (William H. Macey, personal communication, August 19, 2000)

These remarks indicate that I-O psychology may come full circle (from primarily technology to science and research, then back to technology), and the scientist-practitioner dis- tinction will continue to prevail. Thus, it is imperative that for I-O psychologists to continue to make a difference, they need to know their history to understand what was done, what was not done, and why. After reviewing the ﬁrst 50 years of the journal Personnel Psychology, editor John R. Hollenbeck (1998) stated, “the impact that one has on the future seems to be closely related to one’s appreciation of the past. This makes it all the more ﬁtting, therefore, to reﬂect on and study our past. . . .” (Editorial).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk2137.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 189f84d15caad385085917b7c838f76a12cb038c
title: untitled
---
# Industrial-Organizational Psychology

trends in the ﬁeld are . . . increased use of personality measures, 360° feedback instruments, and expanding the work performance domain to include aspects of contextual performance such as cit- izenship behaviours. (Dunnette, 1998, pp. 129–130)

Along with the discipline’s successes, several criticisms have been made (e.g., Dunnette, 1966). Some I-O psycholo- gists believe that practice has outstripped research. Others state that too much attention has been given to precision and objectivity. Researchers disagree with respect to how to ana- lyze, deﬁne, measure, design, and evaluate research. Excess research has been conducted on predictors and validation techniques; a paucity of research exists on criteria. Theories, research methodologies, and data analyses are less applicable for dynamic issues and thus do not account for change. Few longitudinal studies have been conducted because they are cumbersome and expensive. A gap is increasing between I-O psychology and psychology (Highhouse & Zickar, 1997). In addition, progress has been slow because of reporting to peo- ple who are not in positions of authority (Locke, 2000) and being too close to the client (Baritz, 1960).

One speciﬁc criticism plaguing the discipline throughout its history is that I-O psychologists practice “dustbowl em- piricism,” which is the process of researching relationships between variables with scant or no attention to the logic or theory underlying those relationships. Landy (1997) noted, “As a sub-discipline, I/O psychologists have long had prob- lems with theory development” (p. 472). One explanation is that the ﬁeld’s primary focus during the early years was to de- velop solutions to practical problems to legitimize applied psychology (Dunnette, 1976). Dustbowl empiricism may have characterized the discipline in the early years, and some psychologists may continue to believe that theory and re- search have not progressed; however, since the 1960s, a stronger orientation toward theory development and theory- related research can be observed. One explanation is that I-O psychologists demonstrated their usefulness, so their time and energy could be directed toward theory (Katzell & Austin, 1992). Other explanations for strides in theory and re- search include (a) a growing distinction between science and practice, (b) an increased use of laboratory experiments because of academic pressures to publish, (c) the growth of organizational psychology that has a theoretical slant, and (d) unsupported theories that led to revised theories.
