---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8ec6788d286bbd3438406c13ef11efee02ab3356
title: untitled
---
# Current Issues in Forensic Psychology

make this decision, what criteria should be used, and who should be asked to write the brief itself? In the late 1980s, the American Psychology-Law Society (AP-LS) initiated a pro bono brief project to collaborate with the APA in preparing briefs for cases involving important psychological issues (Roesch, Golding, Hans, & Reppucci, 1991). The ﬁrst such brief was ﬁled in Maryland v. Craig (1990), a U.S. Supreme Court case involving the acceptability of special procedures for the courtroom testimony of child witnesses. The brief, written by several leading psycholegal scholars and submit- ted on behalf of the APA, concluded that child victim- witnesses in sexual abuse trials were especially vulnerable and that the state “has a compelling interest in protecting a vulnerable child victim-witness.” The brief suggested that “multiple sources of information, including expert testimony, should be sought in making the individualized determination whether there is a need to limit the defendant’s right to face- to-face confrontation [by allowing the child to testify by means of closed-circuit television] when a particular child victim testiﬁes” (Goodman, Levine, Melton, & Ogden, 1991, p. 29).

This brief stimulated immediate criticism from Underwa- ger and Wakeﬁeld (1992), who argued that the brief’s authors had misrepresented the value and relevance of much of the research that was cited. They also argued that the Craig brief’s conclusions were inconsistent with those of an earlier APA-sponsored brief in Kentucky v. Stincer (1987). Three authors of the Craig brief replied that they had accurately de- scribed the best scientiﬁc evidence that was available. They wrote: “Psychology bears a social responsibility to provide the best available evidence on important questions of legal policy whenever it can do so (APA, Principle F). It should proceed with caution but it should not be disabled by a requirement for perfect evidence” (Goodman, Levine, & Melton,1992,p.249).TheAPA-sponsoredbriefinLockhartv. McCree has also been criticized as possibly overstating the valueoftherelevantresearch(Elliot,1991a,1991b),andthose criticisms were answered as well (e.g., Ellsworth, 1991). It seems likely that debates will continue, both within psy- chology and from those outside the ﬁeld, about the relevance and applicability of evidence based upon psychological research studies.

Even when the U.S. Supreme Court chooses to pay atten- tion to data included in a scientiﬁc brief, the Court may not always reach the conclusion that the brief’s writers intended. Acase in point is the issue of jury size. The APAsubmitted an amicus brief in Williams v. Florida (1970) presenting re- search that, the brief’s writers felt, indicated that juries con- sisting of fewer than 12 members were undesirable because they were unlikely to maintain a representative cross-section

405
