---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 77f5186eba2bca2d38c633f7f350ba5e3bb59213
title: untitled
---
# 290 Assessment Psychology

to the interviewing process fostered not only advances in prac- ticebutalsonewdevelopmentsinresearch.Unliketests,which entail a test form or written protocol that remains available for future review, interviews do not produce any written record other than whatever process notes may be made during or fol- lowing them. Recognizing that such notes are largely inade- quate for research purposes, Rogers, while serving as Director of the Counseling Center at the University of Chicago, began making tape recordings of clinical interviews as a means of obtainingreliabledataconcerningtheirexactcontent.Inthere- search program developed by Rogers and his colleagues, tape recordings were examined for various patterns of verbal inter- action between interviewer and interviewee during treatment sessions. This research on interactive processes in clinical in- terviews stimulated extensive studies of what became known as the “anatomy of the interview” (Matarazzo & Wiens, 1972; Pope,1979),andRogers’innovativeworkwasseminalaswell in fostering systematic psychotherapy research.

Because open-ended interviews require some supplemen- tation to serve assessment purposes adequately, various for- mal procedures and guidelines have been inserted over time into otherwise unstructured interviews. The most notable of these is the Mental Status Examination (MSE), ﬁrst pro- posed in 1902 by Adolf Meyer (1866–1950), a distinguished psychiatrist best known for championing a humane and “common-sense” approach to seriously disturbed persons that included thorough inquiry into their personal history and cur- rent circumstances. The MSE took form as a series of speciﬁc questions and tasks intended to provide a brief but standard- ized assessment of a person’s attention, memory, reasoning ability, social judgment, fund of knowledge, and orientation in time and space. As elaborated by Trzepacz and Baker (1993), a contemporary MSE also includes observations concerning a person’s general appearance, interpersonal conduct, prevail- ing mood, sense of reality, thought processes, self-awareness, and intellectual level.

The MSE has become a standard mental health assessment tool that is considered an integral part of diagnostic evalua- tions by most psychiatrists and is often used by psychologists as well, especially when they are not including any other for- mal tests among their procedures. Paralleling the previously mentioned interest in short forms of intelligence tests, the MSE has been particularly popular in an 11-item version de- veloped in the 1970s as the Mini Mental Status Examination (Folstein, Folstein, & McHugh, 1975). Whatever the length of an MSE, however, the information it provides emerges in fuller and more reliable form in a psychodiagnostic test battery, and psychological assessors who are including for- mal testing among their evaluation procedures rarely ﬁnd use for it.

Along with the development of the MSE as a semi- formal addendum, relatively unstructured assessment inter- views have been shaped by numerous interviewing outlines or schedules that identify topics to be covered (e.g., nature and history of presenting complaint, educational and occupa- tional history) and speciﬁc items of information that should regularly be obtained (e.g., basic demography, current med- ications, and history of substance use, suicidal behavior, and physical or sexual abuse). Such interview guides have long been standard topics in interviewing textbooks for mental health professionals (e.g., Craig, 1989; Morrison, 1993; Othmer & Othmer, 1994). From a historical perspective, one of the most comprehensive and psychologically sensitive but frequently forgotten contributions of this kind was made by George Kelley (1905–1966), who is known primarily for de- veloping personal construct theory and a personality assess- ment instrument he based on it, the Role Construct Repertory Test. In a classic book, The Psychology of Personal Con- structs, Kelley (1955) included several chapters on conduct- ing assessment interviews that provide excellent guidance by today’s standards as well as those of a half century ago.
