# cept of a discipline:

Adiscipline is literally what the term implies. . . . Disciplines can provide a conceptual framework for understanding what knowl- edge is and how it is acquired. Disciplinary learning provides a logical structure to relationships between concepts, propositions, common paradigms, and organizing principles. Disciplines de- velop themes, canons, and grand narratives to join different streams of research in the ﬁeld and to provide meaningful con- ceptualizations and frameworks for further analysis. (p. 14)

Since 1950, psychologists have written several reports about building the discipline and translating its principles and methods into coherent undergraduate educational programs.

Lloyd and Brewer (1992) reviewed the national confer- ences and comprehensive reports on undergraduate psychol- ogy: Cornell Conference (Buxton et al., 1952); Michigan Conference (McKeachie & Milholland, 1961); Kulik, 1973; Scheirer and Rogers, 1985; APA/Association of American Colleges Project on Liberal Learning, Study-in-Depth, and the Arts and Sciences Major (McGovern, Furumoto, Halpern, Kimble, & McKeachie, 1991); and the St. Mary’s College of Maryland Conference held in 1991. We will brieﬂy review the Cornell, Michigan, and St. Mary’s College of Maryland conferences’ accomplishments as part of the continuing nar- rative elements for this chapter—courses, discipline, out- comes, assessment, and how service activities delivered these ﬁndings to widening circles of psychologists.

In 1951, the Carnegie Foundation of New York and the Grant Foundation sponsored a study group of psycholo- gists—six primary authors and 11 consultants—to meet at Cornell University and to conduct “an audit to determine the objectives, examine the content, and appraise the results of the instruction we have been giving. Against the background of such an audit, we can then attempt to build a better cur- riculum” (Buxton et al., 1952, p. v). Their report identiﬁed the objectives of undergraduate psychology as:

(1) Intellectual development and a liberal education; (2) a knowl- edge of psychology, its research ﬁndings, its major problems, its theoretical integrations, and its contributions; (3) personal growth and an increased ability to meet personal and social adjustment problems adequately; (4) desirable attitudes and habits of thought, such as the stimulation of intellectual curios- ity, respect for others, and a feeling of social responsibility. (pp. 2–3)