## Ethical and Professional Issues in Expert Testimony

As psychologists have appeared as expert witnesses with in- creasing frequency in recent years, attention to the ethical is- sues involved in such testimony has increased as well. When psychologists work in legal contexts, they may ﬁnd them- selves in situations involving unanticipated ethical or legal is- sues. Indeed, ethics complaints against psychologists who work in forensic contexts are among the most common made to licensing boards (Ogloff, 1999, p. 403). The Ethical Code oftheAmericanPsychologicalAssociationappliestoforensic psychologists in all of their professional activities. However,

it was not until the 1992 revision of the Ethical Code that issues pertaining to forensic psychology were directly ad- dressed (Ethical Standards 7.01–7.06). The Specialty Guide- lines for Forensic Psychologists (Committee on Ethical Guidelines for Forensic Psychologists, 1991), formulated by the American Psychology-Law Society, contain a more com- prehensive analysis of ethical issues that forensic psycholo- gists may face. However, while psychologists are obligated to adhere to theAPA’s ethical principles (American Psychologi- calAssociation, 1992), the Specialty Guidelines do not repre- sent an ofﬁcial statement of the APA and are “aspirational in nature” (Ogloff, 1999, p. 405).

The Specialty Guidelines are meant to apply to all psy- chologists within any subdiscipline of psychology (e.g., clin- ical, cognitive, developmental, social, experimental) who are engaged regularly as forensic psychologists. The guidelines discuss the issue of competence (i.e., the need to maintain current knowledge of scientiﬁc, professional, and legal de- velopments within the area of claimed competence), types of relationships and potential conﬂicts of interest, and is- sues regarding conﬁdentiality and privilege. The guidelines also note: “Forensic psychologists are aware that hearsay exceptions and other rules governing expert testimony place special ethical burden upon them” and they should “seek to minimize sole reliance upon such evidence” (Committee on Ethical Guidelines for Forensic Psychologists, 1991, p. 662). Further, the guidelines stress the importance of ensuring that forensic psychologists’ public statements and professional testimony are communicated in ways that will promote understanding and avoid deception. The guidelines assert: “Forensic psychologists realize that their public role as ‘expert to the court’ or as ‘expert representing the profes- sion’ confers upon them a special responsibility for fairness and accuracy in their public statements. . . . When testifying, forensic psychologists have an obligation to all parties to legal proceeding to present their ﬁndings, conclusions, evi- dence, or other professional products in a fair manner. This principle does not preclude forceful representation of the data and reasoning upon which a conclusion or professional prod- uct is based. It does, however, preclude an attempt, whether active or passive, to engage in partisan distortion or misrep- resentation” (p. 664).

As several writers have pointed out (e.g., Keith-Spiegel & Koocher, 1985; Ogloff, 1999), psychologists working in the legal system may encounter ethical situations for which their training has not prepared them. One issue is: Who is the client? If the psychologist has been hired to examine a job ap- plicant as part of an employment screening process, for ex- ample, the employer, not the job applicant, is the client. In such a case, the employer “owns” the conﬁdentiality, and the

psychologist must share the results with the employer (Ogloff, 1999, p. 407). Another issue of concern is the scope of the psychologist’s competence and the danger that may arise from the temptation (perhaps encouraged by an attor- ney) to testify or work outside of the boundaries of one’s competence. The APA Ethics Code declares that psycholo- gists must provide services only within the boundaries of their competence, and the Specialty Guidelines note that “forensic psychologists have an obligation to present to the court, regarding the speciﬁc matters to which they will testify, the boundaries of their competence” (Specialty Guideline III[B]).

The politically charged issue of the use of intelligence tests with different ethnic groups is an instance where values, psychological data, and expert opinions have clashed in the courts. In a California case, Larry P. v. Riles (1972), the trial court heard expert testimony from many eminent psycholo- gists and measurement experts. Some of the experts argued that the tests upon which school determinations were based were racially and culturally biased, while other experts con- curred with the school system that there was no evidence that tests disfavored minorities because of an inherent bias in their construction. The trial judge ruled that individual intelligence tests discriminate against minority children and restricted their use in California. In contrast, in the later case of PASE v. Hannon (1980), in which many of the same experts testi- ﬁed, the trial judge found that such tests did not discrimi- nate against minorities. What was particularly troubling to some (e.g., Bersoff, 1986) was the apparently questionable nature of the expert testimony. The judge in Hannon was very critical of the experts’testimony and wrote that “None of the witnesses in this case has so impressed me with his or her credibility or expertise that I would feel secure in basing a decision simply on his or her opinion” (quoted in Bersoff, 1986, p. 161). Bersoff asserted that “This perception of the behavior of the expert witnesses who testiﬁed before Judge Grady raises some formidable and disturbing, if not painful, ethical issues. If he is correct in that perception, each of the psychologists who offered opinions out of a ‘doctrinaire commitment to a preconceived idea’rather than as a ‘result of scientiﬁc inquiry’ may be guilty of violating several impor- tant provisions of the Ethical Principles of Psychologists.” Another ethical issue that has received considerable atten- tion in the past three decades is the duty to disclose informa- tion in order to protect or warn third parties. The California Supreme Court’s ﬁnal decision in Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of California (1976) may be the single court decision that is best known to psychologists. In this case, a therapist and university clinic were found liable for failing to protect an identiﬁable third party, Tatiana Tarasoff. She was