# 546 Professional Organizations

1938, psychologist members of theAmerican TeachersAsso- ciation, an all-black educational group, formed Division 6, Department of Psychology, to facilitate communication and strengthen their professional identity (Guthrie, 1998). Divi- sion 6 sent representatives to the Intersociety Constitutional Convention that led to the reorganization of the APA during WorldWarII(Capshew,1999).However,theATA’sDivision6 was unable to maintainitsmomentum afterthewar.

In 1963, the APA, at the urging of the SPSSI, formed the Committee on Equality of Opportunity in Psychology (CEOP) to examine the status of education, training, and career paths of African Americans in psychology (Wispe et al., 1969). However, many black psychologists were dis- satisﬁed with the slow pace of the APA committee and were frustrated with what they perceived as the APA’s neglect of their African American members, the low numbers of African Americans in APA governance, and the strikingly few black APAemployees. By the second half of the 1960s, a new pride in African American identity had emerged as was evidenced by the focus on Black Power and Black Nationalism. Many younger African American psychologists simply did not identify with the APA, perceiving it as conservative and heavily invested in white, middle-class values. Their anger and frustration came together at the annual convention of the APA in San Francisco (B. Williams, 1997). A small group meeting in a hotel room during the 1968 APA convention grew into a larger meeting of 200 African American psychol- ogists the next day (R. Williams, 1974). Out of this meeting, the Association of Black Psychologists was formed (Guthrie, 1998).

ABPsi grew into a thriving organization with its own agenda, its own mission, and its own identity. It became the professional organization of choice for many African American psychologists. ABPsi holds annual meetings (twice in African countries), has an active publication pro- gram that includes the quarterly Journal of Black Psychology, the monthly newsletter Psych Discourse, the Association of Black Psychologists Publication Manual, and the Source- book on the Teaching of Black Psychology.

Following a dramatic confrontation of the APA leadership by the newly formed Black Students in Psychology Associa- tion (BSPA) during the 1969 convention, ABPsi and BPSA cooperated in persuading the APA to address the concerns of black psychologists about culturally biased testing practices, lack of employment opportunities for African Americans in psychology, and inadequate recruitment and support of black graduate students (R. Williams, 1974). The events of 1968 and 1969 had effects that reverberated over the next several years. Hispanic psychologists and Asian American psycholo- gists also formed organizations and put pressure on the APA

to become more sensitive and supportive of their issues. As a result, the APA formed the Board of Ethnic Minority Affairs and opened the Ofﬁce of Ethnic Minority Affairs. The latter has been an important conduit of training monies for ethnic minority graduate students.

In the early 1970s, two brothers, Derald (b. 1942) and Stanley (b. 1944) Sue, coordinated a series of meetings in San Francisco that included a variety of professionals in- volved in mental health issues in the Asian community. These meetings eventually led to the founding of the Asian American Psychological Association (AAPA) in 1972. Mem- bership was small at ﬁrst, and the group struggled to maintain cohesion (Leong, 1995). Despite this small beginning, the AAPA had a membership of over 400 by the year 2000.

Although Asian mental health was the original concern of the AAPA, since that time the organization has diversiﬁed in its interests. Advocacy efforts on behalf of Asian Americans led to involvement on U.S. Census issues and to a long en- gagement against the English-only movement in California. Members of the AAPA developed Asian American psycho- logical theory that was applied to a range of psychological topics, including clinical training and social research. Lead- ers of the association were among the very ﬁrst to develop theory and practice related to multicultural counseling. The National Institute of Mental Health relied on the association to assist it in its efforts to diversify its training population, and members of the AAPA served as key liaisons to the NIMH and other federal agencies for the development of mental health policy.

The AAPAdeveloped close ties with the APAvery early in its existence. AAPAmembers served on key boards and com- mittees of the APA, including the Board of Ethnic Minority Affairs, the Board for the Advancement of Psychology in the Public Interest, and the Committee for Ethnic Minority Recruitment, Retention, and Training. The AAPAbegan pub- lishing the Journal of the Asian American Psychological Association in 1979 and began a series of monographs in 1995 (Leong, 1995). In 1999, Dr. Richard Suinn (b. 1933) served as the ﬁrst Asian American president of the APA.

In 1971, Carolyn Attneave (1920–1992) formed the Net- work of Indian Psychologists in the Boston area. About the same time, Joe Trimble (b. 1938) formed a group in 1971 called the American Indian Interest Group. Trimble’s group was formed with support from the SPSSI and was afﬁliated with it. In 1973, Trimble merged his group with the Network of Indian Psychologists. Attneave changed the name of her group to the Society of Indian Psychologists (SIP) around 1975 (Trimble, 2000). Membership in the SIP was always small, numbering around 100 at the end of the twentieth cen- tury. Members of the SIP and other Indian psychologists

worked to increase the number of American Indian psycholo- gists in North America. One notable success was the Indians into Psychology Doctoral Education (INDPSYDE) started by Arthur L. McDonald (b. 1934) in the mid-1980s. By the end of the twentieth century, INDPSYDE programs were operat- ing at several colleges and universities in the West and there had been a noticeable gain in the number of American Indian psychologists. SIP members also worked with the APA and other ethnic minority psychology groups to support the de- velopment of rural minority mental health programs. In 1986, Logan Wright (1933–1999) was the ﬁrst person of American Indian heritage to be elected APA president.

The National Hispanic Psychological Association grew out of an earlier organization of Hispanic psychologists, the Association of Psychologists Por La Raza (APLR), which was founded in Miami in 1970 during the APA convention (Bernal, 1994). The founding group was very small, but that number grew to around 40 as a result of an APLR symposium on Hispanic psychology at the 1971 APA convention. Over the next several years, Hispanic psychologists developed a professional network through NIMH-sponsored conferences and involvement with the APA’s Board of Ethnic Minority Affairs. In 1979, the National Hispanic Psychological Asso- ciation was formed and the ﬁrst issue of the Hispanic Journal of Behavioral Science was published.

In general, all of the ethnic minority psychological associ- ations were involved in prompting the NIMH to become more involved with the support of training of ethnic minority psychologists. The APA, while it initially needed to be prod- ded by ethnic and minority psychologists, became a positive force for promoting and supporting the diversiﬁcation of psy- chology. In 1979, the APAopened its Ofﬁce of Ethnic Minor- ity Affairs and remained a major collaborator with ethnic and minority psychological associations.

A direct descendant of the National Council of Women Psychologists (see above) was the Association for Women in Psychology. The NCWP, after it changed its name to the International Council of Psychologists, lost its main thrust of advancing the cause of women psychologists. That charge was taken up in the more radical and restive late 1960s by a number of women APA members (Tiefer, 1991). The Associ- ation for Women Psychologists (AWP) was founded by ap- proximately 35 women and men at the 1969 APAconvention. In 1970, the group changed its name to the Association for Women in Psychology. Many of the original members were convinced that the APA was insensitive to the needs of women psychologists and supported discriminatory, sexist practices in both academic and professional psychology (Tiefer, 1991). For the ﬁrst years of its existence, the AWP lobbied for change within the APA. Issues that were most