# Frameworks for Studying Women and Gender

Reﬂexivity is a broad concept. It can refer to a researcher’s disciplined reﬂection on how her identity and social location inﬂuence her work. It can also refer to a critical analysis of the relationships among researchers and participants. And, it can refer to a critical perspective on the discipline of psy- chology. We give examples of each kind of reﬂexivity in turn. Personal reﬂexivity is a continuing process of reﬂection on the part of the researcher about how her multiple identities (her social class, gender, age, status, feminist stance, ethnic- ity, and so on) inﬂuence her work. Psychology has long denied that the social identity of researchers affects their choice of research topics, theories, methods, and interpreta- tion of research results. By contrast, in taking a reﬂexive stance, a researcher acknowledges these connections, is will- ing to explore them, and recognizes that she is not exempt from the psychological processes she studies in others. For example, Deborah Belle (1994) reﬂected on how her position as a young, middle-class, white professional affected her re- lationship with and understanding of the low-income white and African American women she was interviewing. Ponder- ing the similarities and differences between herself and her respondents led Belle to insights about the limited utility of conceiving of race and class merely as categories of individ- ual difference, the complex signiﬁcance of social networks for poor women, and the inadequacy of equating poverty with current household income.

Reﬂexivity also encompasses analysis of the social rela- tionships among various participants in the research enter- prise. Most researchers work in groups with differing levels of experience and skill, and most work in the context of hierar- the chical researchprocess.FrancesGrossmanandhercolleagues(2000) explored how their needs for equality and intimacy affected theirresearchonadultwomenwhohadexperiencedchildhood sexual abuse.These needs affected both their understanding of women’s accounts of abuse and their collaboration.

institutions. These social conﬁgurations affect

Reﬂexivity also refers to a critical stance toward the disci- pline. Early second-wave theorists such as Naomi Weisstein (1971) and Carolyn Sherif (1979) exemplify this critical stance. This form of reﬂexivity continues to the present. Richard Walsh-Bowers (1999), for example, has recently an- alyzed some underlying assumptions of the APA publication manual. Critically examining its implicit deﬁnitions of what counts as research and the roles of researchers and partici- pants, he discussed the manual’s function in socializing its users into the culture of the discipline.

Methodological Pluralism. Both ﬁrst- and second- wave feminists criticized psychology’s research methods. With the second wave, however, has come a more fundamen- tal criticism, not merely of ﬂaws and biases in the application

255