data/clean/untitled__chunk2717.md, before:

## Ethnic Minorities in Research and Organization

do have an impact in academic and research circles, tend to focus their work on ethnic-minority issues.

Cuban-Americans often do not identify themselves with other Hispanics. The number of Cuban-Americans who are part of mainstream Hispanic groups such as La Raza are rather small. As G. C. Hall and Maramba (2001) have dis- covered, there is highly limited overlap between cross- cultural and ethnic-minority literature. They go on to report that authors of cross-cultural studies tend to be white men of European ancestry whereas ethnic-minority research tends to be authored by ethnic-minority men and women. Further, all ethnic-minorities with a Spanish surname in their review are of Latino and not of Cuban descent.

My service to the profession consisted of membership on a variety of boards and committees ranging from being pres- ident of the North Carolina Psychological Association, North Carolina Psychological Foundation, and the National Acad- emy of Neuropsychology (NAN) to serving on the Health Care Finance Administration’s Medicare Coverage Advisory Committee and the American Medical Association’s Current Procedural Terminology Panel. However, during the last 10 years, I have become much more interested in cultural, though not necessarily ethnic-minority issues. For example, I presented the ﬁrst workshop at a national neuropsychology convention on cultural issues in 1993.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk2717.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: bca673afb548fb87d57a0aca4dec8a951ae1685b
title: untitled
---
# A CUBAN-AMERICAN PERSPECTIVE

Since the Communist Revolution in Cuba, Cubans have mi- grated in large numbers to the United States, primarily Miami, Florida. They comprise a vibrant portion of ethnic- minorities and an important subgroup within the Hispanic culture in the United States especially in Miami and New York. Cubans still residing in Cuba remain a vibrant aspect of Latin America and the world.

The history of Cuban psychology is almost as old as American psychology starting with philosophers and educa- tors toward the end of the nineteenth century. The best exam- ple of a pioneer in Cuban psychology was a Enrique Varona y Pera, a politician, educator, philosopher, and psychologist (Puente & Puente, 2000). His ﬁrst book Conferencias Filosoﬁcas in the 1880s marked the beginning of a strong and independent intellectual climate in Cuba. He migrated toward psychology because of its focus on pedagogy as well

as its scientiﬁc underpinnings. As a consequence, he went on to become the ﬁrst psychologist at the Universidad de la Habana. In 1921, he wrote the ﬁrst textbook in psychology in Cuba, Curso de Psicologia (Varona y Pera, 1921).

Psychology grew, much like related disciplines, in Cuba primarily at the Universidad de la Habana. While other important universities went on to have faculty in psychology, the central focus has been and continues to be the main university in the capital. The focus on Cuban psychology re- mained on pedagogical applications and strong philosophical underpinnings. Vernon (1944) examined the state of psychol- ogy at the time and indicated that educational psychology was clearly the most important area within psychology.

By 1960, both Cuban psychology and society had begun to change. The revolution shifted the role of psychology and two major areas initially emerged. First, health care became a critical concern for the government and, within that focus, mental health took on an important position. Although psychopathology may have been viewed in a largely social context, increasing efforts were being made to develop an experimental psychopathology (Grau Abalo, 1984). The other issues involved the application of psychology to larger social contexts. This included, for example, the use of psy- chology in sports, something that has eventually occurred in the United States. In all cases, however, Soviet psychology played a major role. By 1964, the focus had shifted to educa- tional, industrial, social, and clinical psychology. As Soviet psychology became more prevalent, other areas also took on greater importance. One example of this is clinical neuropsy- chology; several psychologists including Eduardo Cairo went to Moscow, some to study with Alexander Luria considered by some as the father of clinical neuropsychology.

Currently, Cuban psychology remains a strong and inte- gral part of the Universidad de la Habana. Scientiﬁc psychol- ogy, rather than psychodynamic and humanism, are the central focus of psychology today. While there have been signiﬁcant impediments to the integration of Cuban psychol- ogy into mainstream American psychology (e.g., no Cuban journal is abstracted by APA’s PsychLit), Cubans have made an effort to bring their brand of thinking and health care to other parts of the world (e.g., Gongora & Barrios-Santos, 1987).

In the United States, Cuban-Americans have comprised a very small and relatively silent group within psychology. Outside of isolated instances [e.g., Szapocznik & Kurtines (1995) in Miami], few Cubans have made an impact on aca- demic or research psychology. Most Cubans that do obtain their doctorates (perhaps reﬂective of psychology as a whole) pursue applied and clinical aspects of the discipline rather than research or academic careers. Furthermore, those that
