---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c7294bd25a31641a6a0f32c3ed0fdafb05cd480e
title: untitled
---
# Preventive Interventions 441

prevention research and preventive interventions for a span of over 15 years (Kessler & Goldston, 1986; Kessler, Goldston, & Joffe, 1992). The Vermont Conferences were also important because they brought together persons of dif- ferent disciplines, including those from local and state pre- vention programs, who had roles in policy development for mental health services. The ability of preventionists, includ- ing community psychologists, to inﬂuence policy at local and national levels was essential for the widespread application of a prevention orientation to mental health services. For example, psychologists’contribution on The Prevention Task Force Report of the Carter Commission on Mental Health Services in 1978 was inﬂuential in emphasizing the signiﬁ- cance of prevention, as the report recommended the creation of ﬁeld stations to do prevention research (Levine & Perkins, 1997).

Prevention was further legitimized with the creation of the Center for Prevention Research at NIMH in 1982. Under the leadership of Mort Silverman, research grants became avail- able to fund Prevention Research Centers. These centers gen- erated prevention research sites, including those at Arizona State University, the University of Michigan, Johns Hopkins University, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, and the OregonSocialLearningCenter.Consistentwiththemissionof NIMH, much of the emphasis of these centers was to prevent mental disorders, such as conduct problems, substance abuse, and depression. Much of this research has been published in scientiﬁc journals (e.g., Koretz, 1991) and has informed the ﬁeld on state-of-the-art advances in the ﬁeld of prevention.

While theoretical discussions surrounding prevention focused on communities and community members, empiri- cally driven prevention research continued to focus primarily on building the personal competencies of individuals. For ex- ample, Spivack and Shure’s (1974, 1985) groundbreaking competence-building intervention, Interpersonal Cognitive Problem Solving (ICPS), sought to build a set of skills in young children in order to maximize their adjustment and in- terpersonal effectiveness. This intervention was based on a number of problem-solving skills identiﬁed in adjusted chil- drenandattemptedtofurtherpromotethesenaturalstrategies. After ﬁnding ICPS to be relevant to a variety of populations, Shure spoke of the “central role that interpersonal compe- tenceplaysinhumanadjustment,andtheplaceofICPSinthat competence” (Spivack & Shure, 1985, pp. 230–231). Build- ing speciﬁcally on the work of Spivack and Shure, Weissberg et al. (1981) developed a skills-building intervention called the Social Problem-Solving Skills (SPS). SPS sought to teach agroupofsecond-,third-,andfourth-gradestudentsanumber of skills designed to build their social problem-solving skills and eventually improve their adjustment. Central to their
