# Behaviorism

Animal psychology had drawn attention to the importance of behavior as a clue to mind, but inferences from behavior about animal consciousness were part of the expected inter- pretations of experimental results. But the focus of study was changing: “There is unquestionably a widespread movement on foot in which interest is centered on the results of con- scious process, rather than in the processes themselves. This is peculiarly true in animal psychology; it is only less true in human psychology. In these cases interest [is] in what may for lack of a better term be called ‘behavior’; and the analy- sis of consciousness is primarily justiﬁed by the light it throws on behavior, rather than vice versa” (Angell, 1911, p. 47).

The proposal that psychology reject its traditional deﬁni- tion as the science of mind and consciousness and redeﬁne itself as a science of behavior came from John B. Watson (1913). Watson arrived at the University of Chicago in 1900 to begin graduate work following an undergraduate degree in philosophy and psychology from Furman University (Harris, 1999; O’Donnell, 1985). H. H. Donaldson, who had moved to the University of Chicago from Clark University, brought with him his research program that investigated the relation between the development of the nervous system and the behavior of the rat. Animal laboratories were few; in 1909, only about six laboratories were actively engaged in animal research (O’Donnell, 1985). For his dissertation, Watson chose to investigate the neurological correlates of problem solving in the white rat and carried out additional experi- ments with rats to determine which sensory modalities were necessary for learning a maze by systematically eliminating one modality at a time. He removed the eyes, tympanic mem- brane, olfactory bulbs, and whiskers and anesthetized the feet of rats and discovered that the animals seemed to use kines- thetic feedback to reach the goal box (Carr & Watson, 1908; Goodwin, 1999; J. B. Watson, 1907). Watson’s ﬁrst report of these experiments at the annual meeting of the APA held in

15