# Teaching

nals such as the American Psychologist). When departmental psychologists engaged in voluntary or required curriculum review projects, they looked to these reports for guidance (Korn, Sweetman, & Nodine, 1996).

At the 14th meeting of the American Psychological Asso- ciation, E. C. Sanford (1906) offered a “sketch of a begin- ner’s course in psychology.” He suggested that we ﬁrst build on the knowledge that students bring with them into this course; second, that we offer a wide base of psychological facts; third, “a genuine interest in science for its own sake is a late development in knowledge of any kind” (p. 59). He then suggested seven broad topics and an organizational se- quence within which to teach them: Learning and Acquisi- tion; Truth and Error; Emotion; Personality and Character; Facts of the Interdependence of Mind and Body; Psychogen- esis; and Systematic Psychology (pp. 59–60). In 1908, the APA appointed the Committee on Methods of Teaching Psy- chology, which decided to inventory goals and teaching prac- tices for the elementary course (Goodwin, 1992).

Synthesizing the responses from 32 universities with laboratories, E. C. Sanford (1910) reported that institutions were teaching the ﬁrst course in sections of 200, 300, and 400 students; Whipple (1910) reported a mean enrollment of 107 students, according to his 100 normal school respon- dents. In institutions with laboratories, Sanford reported that 25% of the instructors saw the course as a gateway to the study of philosophy; more than 50% wanted students to study science for its own sake and also to appreciate the concrete applications of psychology to life. Calkins (1910) summa- rized the responses she received from 47 institutions with no laboratories in this way:

First, teach psychology primarily as you would if it were an end in itself. Second, eschew altogether the method of recitation; lecture in order to sum up and to illustrate different topics of study,butlecturesparingly;andcultivateconstructivediscussion. Third, bar out the possibility of memorizing text-books by requir- ing students to precede text-book study by the solution of con- crete problems. Finally, do not tolerate inexact thinking. (p. 53)

Seashore’s (1910) summary included three aims: teach psy- chology (i.e., not philosophy) as a science with incidental treatment of its application; train students in observation and the explanation of mental facts; offer a balanced survey of all topics that psychologists study with an in-depth examination of a few. He urged that the elementary course be taught to sophomores in a two-semester sequence, preferably preceded by a course in animal biology. More than for any other disci- plineofthatday,theteacherofpsychologyshouldhaveanex- ceptionally thorough preparation (because of the breadth of topics), be one of the most mature members of the department

469