# 458 Health Psychology

The following 10 years witnessed a rapid growth of health psychology both within and outside the EHPS. In the 1990s, many European countries developed their own health psychology groups and national societies, although there are many asymmetries among European countries in prac- tice orientation and research. The oldest national groups were created in Ireland and England (Johnston, 1997). In 1986, in- terest groups in health psychology were established at the British Psychological Society and the Psychological Society of Ireland (Weinman, 1998). Other countries that followed this early expansion were the Netherlands, Germany, Poland, Finland, and Norway. Currently, there are EHPS delegates in 27 European countries, including eastern Europe (McIntyre, Maes, Weinman, Wrzesniewski, & Marks, 2000).

Comparable developments were taking place in Asia under the leadership of Professor Hiroshi Motoaki of Tokyo’s Waseda University. These included his seminal roles in the establishment in 1988 of the Japanese Association of Health Psychology and in 2000 of the Asian Congress of Health Psychology. Matoaki was elected charter president of each of these groups.

AmajorcontributionoftheEHPStothescientiﬁcdevelop- ment of health psychology in Europe has been the publication of the Journal of Psychology and Health, the leading Euro- pean journal in this ﬁeld since 1986 when it was founded under editor John Weinman. Other more recent journals have also contributed to this ﬁeld, including the Journal of Health Psychology (founding editors: Andrew Steptoe & Jane War- dle) and Psychology, Health & Medicine (founding editor: Lorraine Sherr). Several national health psychology journals have been created that publish health psychology articles in the country’s language, such as the British Journal of Health Psychology (United Kingdom), Gedrag & Gezondheid: Tijd- schrift voor Psychologie en Gezondheid (the Netherlands), Revista de Psicologia de la Salud (Spain), and Zeitschrift für Gesundheitspsychologie (Germany).

Although there are many commonalities between North American and European health psychology, health psychol- ogy in Europe is perhaps best characterized by its diversity (Johnston, 1993). There is wide variation among European countries in terms of expectation of life and patterns of dis- ease, in health behaviors and risk behaviors, in health knowl- edge, health beliefs and attitudes, and in service provision. As Johnston points out, this diversity provides great potential for science, as cross-cultural comparisons allow the testing of the universality of psychological processes, constructs, and mod- els. Europe thus provides a rich laboratory to undertake the study of the impact of variation on different health processes, such as health care provision. This asymmetry also carries

over to education, training, and practice in health psychology in Europe. Based on the articles being published in the Japanese Journal of Health Psychology during its ﬁrst dozen years of existence, research and education in health psychol- ogy in Japan appear quite similar to counterparts in the United States.