## In an interview with Jane Halonen (1992), McKeachie

commented about the conference:

We came up with the idea of sequencing, which is why Dael Wolﬂe really brought us together. He thought we were teaching all of our courses at about one level beyond the intro- ductory and covering the same thing in the advanced course in order to bring people up to some common base so they could go on to the latter part of the course. I think that was important. (pp. 251–252)

The study group agreed on one recommended curriculum model. The introductory course was to be followed by ﬁve in- termediate or core courses (statistics, motivation, perception, thinking and language, and ability), then advanced courses in specialized areas (e.g., social, learning, comparative, phys- iological, personnel, etc.), and ﬁnally capstone courses in personality and history and systems. All courses should be

taught as “experimental psychology” courses. The authors wrote separate chapters on personal adjustment courses, technical training, implementation problems based on institu- tional differences, and the need for a research agenda to mea- sure the effectiveness of undergraduate education.

A similar study group approach, the Michigan Confer- ence, was sponsored by the National Science Foundation 10 years later and was reported in McKeachie and Milholland (1961). This group began with data from a survey of 548 de- partments to which 411 responded; 274 had revised their cur- riculum since the earlier Cornell report. They found that 69% of the respondents used the earlier recommendations. An im- portant point to note is that the Michigan group of six psy- chologists framed their recommendations in the context of two critical external forces affecting psychology. First, the demographics of higher education were changing both in terms of increased numbers and increased diversity (speciﬁ- cally in age and vocational goals). Second, “more serious than the problem of sheer numbers is the fact that teaching is not a prestigeful occupation in psychology these days. The research man is the status ﬁgure” (p. 6).

three forces—utilitarian demands, scientiﬁc advances, and values of a liberal education—form a subtext for this entire report. McKeachie and Milholland (1961) asserted that the psychol- ogy curriculum “would be ﬁrmly anchored in the liberal arts, rejecting undergraduate vocational training as a pri- mary goal” (p. 33). This principle is operationalized in great detail in two chapters: “The Beginning Course” and “The Experimental-Statistical Area.” The greatest value lay in “teaching psychology as an organized body of scientiﬁc knowledge and method with its own internal structure for de- termining the admissibility of materials to be taught” (p. 59). The authors were unequivocal to teaching psychology as a continually advancing science, reafﬁrming the Cornell group’s objectives: content knowl- edge, rigorous habits of thought, and values and attitudes. They expanded these general goals with a set of 16 objec- tives, many of which are similar to statements about “critical thinking” that emerged as part of identifying liberal arts out- comes when assessment initiatives became so inﬂuential in the mid-1980s and after. The Michigan authors sketched three different curricular models because they could not agree on a single one. In what was a utilitarian and prescient comment, they concluded, “What is ideal, we now believe, depends on the staff, the students, the total college curricu- lum, and other factors” (p. 103). Into the 1990s, “staff,” “stu- dents,” and the “total college curriculum” would play an in- creasing role in shaping how individual institutions communicated the discipline. “Other factors”—all external