# 124 Cognition and Learning

even instrumental learning were increasingly interpreted involving associations between ideas—now called “repre- sentations” (Leahey & Harris, 2001), as in the pioneering cognitive theory of Robert Rescorla (1988).

Radical Behaviorism. A completely different form of metaphysical behaviorism was developed by B. F. Skinner (1904–1990). Skinner extended to psychology the philoso- phy of neorealism propounded by a number of American philosophers after 1910 (Smith, 1986). The neorealists re- vived the old realist claim that the Way of Ideas was mis- taken, that perception of objects was direct and not mediated by intervening ideas. Tolman, too, built his early theories on neorealism but later returned to the Way of Ideas with the concept of the cognitive map (Smith, 1986). Skinner never wavered from realism, working out the radical implication that if there are no ideas, there is no private world of con- sciousness or mind to be populated by them. Introspective psychology was thus an illusion, and psychology should be redeﬁned as studying the interactive relationship between an organism and the environment in which it behaves. The past and present environments provide the stimuli that set the occasion for behavior, and the organism’s actions operate (hence the term operant) on the environment. Actions have consequences, and these consequences shape the behavior of the organism.

Skinner’s thinking is often misrepresented as a S-R psy- chology in the mechanistic tradition of Thorndike, John B. Watson (1878–1958), or Clark Hull. In fact, Skinner re- jected—or,moreprecisely,stoodapartfrom—themechanistic way of thinking about living organisms that had begun with Descartes. For a variety of reasons, including its successes, its prestige, and the inﬂuence of positivism, physics has been treated as the queen of the sciences, and scientists in other ﬁelds,includingpsychology,havealmostuniformlyenviedit, seeking to explain their phenomena of interest in mechanical- causal terms. A paradigmatic case in point was Clark Hull, who acquired a bad case of physics-envy from reading Newton’s Principia, and his logico-mathematical theory of learning was an attempt to emulate his master. Skinner renounced physics as the model science for the study of be- havior, replacing it with Darwinian evolution and selection by consequences (Skinner, 1969). In physical-model thinking, behaviors are caused by stimuli that mechanically provoke them. In evolution, the appearance of new traits is unpre- dictable,andtheirfateisdeterminedbytheconsequencesthey bring. Traits that favor survival and reproduction increase in frequency over the generations; traits that hamper survival and reproduction decrease in frequency. Similarly, behaviors are emitted, and whether they are retained (learned) or lost

(extinguished) depends on the consequences of reinforce- ment or nonreinforcement.

As a scientist, Skinner, like Thorndike, Hull, and Tolman, studied animals almost exclusively. However, unlike them Skinner wrote extensively about human behavior in a specu- lative way he called interpretation. His most important such work was Verbal Behavior (1957), in which he offered a the- ory of human cognition. Beginning with Socrates, the central quest of epistemology was understanding the uniquely human ability to form universal concepts, such as cat, dog, or Truth. From Descartes onward, this ability was linked to language, the unique possession of humans, in which we can state uni- versal deﬁnitions. In either case, universal concepts were the possession of the human mind, whether as abstract images (Aristotle) or as sentences (Descartes). Skinner, of course, re- jected the existence of mind, and therefore of any difference between explaining animal and human behavior. Mediational theorists allowed for an attenuated difference, but Skinner would have none of it. He wrote that although “most of the experimental work responsible for the advance of the experi- mental analysis of behavior has been carried out on other species . . . the results have proved to be surprisingly free of species restrictions . . . and its methods can be extended to human behavior without serious modiﬁcation” (Skinner, 1957, p. 3). The ﬁnal goal of the experimental analysis of be- havior is a science of human behavior using the same princi- ples ﬁrst applied to animals.

In Verbal Behavior, Skinner offered a behavioristic analy- sisofuniversalconceptswiththetechnicaltermtact,anddrew out its implications for other aspects of mind and cognition.A tactisaverbaloperantunderthestimuluscontrol of some part of the physical environment, and the verbal community rein- forces correct use of tacts. So a child is reinforced by parents foremittingthesound“dog”inthepresenceofadog(Skinner, 1957). Such an operant is called a tact because it “makes con- tact with” the physical environment. Tacts presumably begin as names (e.g., for the ﬁrst dog a child learns to label “dog”), but as the verbal community reinforces the emission of the term to similar animals, the tact becomes generalized. Of course, discrimination learning is also involved, as the child will not be reinforced for calling cats “dog.” Eventually, through behavior shaping, the child’s “dog” response will occuronlyinthepresenceofdogsandnotintheirabsence.For Skinner, the situation is no different from that of a pigeon re- inforced for pecking keys only when they are illuminated any shade of green and not otherwise. Skinner reduced the tradi- tional notion of reference to a functional relationship among a response, its discriminative stimuli, and its reinforcer.

Skinner’s radical analysis of tacting raises an important general point about his treatment of human consciousness,

his notion of private stimuli. Skinner believed that earlier methodological behaviorists such as Tolman and Hull were wrong to exclude private events (such as mental images or toothaches) from behaviorism simply because such events are private. Skinner held that part of each person’s environ- ment includes the world inside her or his skin, those stimuli to which the person has privileged access. Such stimuli may be unknown to an external observer, but they are experienced by the person who has them, can control behavior, and so must be included in any behaviorist analysis of human behavior. Many verbal statements are under such control, including complex tacts. For example: “My tooth aches” is a kind of tacting response controlled by a certain kind of painful inner stimulation.

This simple analysis implies a momentous conclusion. How do we come to be able to make correct private tacts? Skinner’s answer was that the verbal community has trained ustoobserveourprivatestimulibyreinforcingutterancesthat refer to them. It is useful for parents to know what is distress- ing a child, so they attempt to teach a child self-reporting verbal behaviors. “My tooth aches” indicates a visit to the dentist, not the podiatrist. Such responses thus have Darwin- ian survival value. It is these self-observed private stimuli that constituteconsciousness.Itthereforefollowsthathumancon- sciousness is a product of the reinforcing practices of a verbal community. A person raised by a community that did not re- inforce self-description would not be conscious in anything but the sense of being awake.That person would have no self- consciousness.

Self-description also allowed Skinner to explain apparently purposive verbal behaviors without reference to intention or purpose. For example, “I am looking for my glasses” seems to describe my intentions, but Skinner (1957) argued: “Such behavior must be regarded as equivalent to When I have be- haved in this way in the past, I have found my glasses and have then stopped behaving in this way” (p. 145). Intention is a mentalistic term Skinner has reduced to the physicalistic description of one’s bodily state. Skinner ﬁnally attacked the citadel of the Cartesian soul, thinking. Skinner continued to exorcise Cartesian mentalism by arguing that “thought is simply behavior.” Skinner rejected Watson’s view that think- ing is subvocal behavior, for much covert behavior is not ver- bal yet can still control overt behavior in a way characteristic of “thinking”: “I think I shall be going can be translated I ﬁnd myself going” (p. 449), a reference to self-observed, but non- verbal, stimuli.

Skinner’s radical behaviorism was certainly unique, breakingwith allotherways of explainingmind andbehavior. Its impact, however, has been limited (Leahey, 2000). At the dawn of the new cognitive era, Verbal Behavior received a