# Morton Prince and Multiple Personality

Boston neurologist Morton Prince (1854–1929) adapted the theories and methods of Freud and Janet to his own inter- ests in the study of neuroses, the unconscious, and hyp- nosis. Prince was interested in both conversion hysteria and

multiple personality, and his paper, written at the end of the nineteenth century and during the ﬁrst several decades of the twentieth century, provided examples of both. His case history of Miss Beauchamp is cited as a classic example of multiple personality (Prince, 1975). The essential diagnostic feature of multiple personality is the apparent existence in the individual of two or more distinct personalities that alternate in dominance. Each personality appears complex and inte- grated, has memories unique to that personality, and displays patterns of behavior, emotional expression, and ways of in- teracting socially that differentiate it from the other personal- ities. The personalities seem often to be opposites; a retiring, highly moralistic person may on occasion behave in a self- advertising and outrageously amoral manner. The transition from one to another of the personalities is often sudden and associated with apparent psychosocial stress. The original personality has no knowledge of the others, whereas the sub- personalities are usually aware of each other.

The problem with all cases of multiple personality that have been highly publicized is that the extra personalities are initially brought forth by the psychotherapist, usually while the client is in a hypnotic trance and therefore suggestible. The names of the additional personalities may be suggested by the therapist. It is unclear whether each personality pre- existed or was constructed and shaped by the clinician.

Spanos (1986) suggested that multiple personality is not a disease, but a role learned in response to situations in which this behavior is useful and considered appropriate. He attributes the astonishing increase in frequency of reported multiple personalities to the increased use by mental health professionals who encourage patients to adopt this role. We note that the motivation to present multiple personality is par- ticularly intense when a client has been accused of a serious crime and hopes to transfer responsibility for the crime to an alleged alternate personality.