---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2bbf485071aeb956b517bca7476bf341d7270616
title: untitled
---
# TREATMENT INTERVENTIONS

By World War II, many of those who had broken with Freud (such as, Adler, Jung, and Rank) established personality the- ories, schools, and therapeutic systems of their own that were uniﬁed by the importance they ascribed to unconscious moti- vation in determining psychopathology. These “psychody- namic” psychotherapies were augmented by those of Horney, Sullivan, and Fromm, who, impressed by social forces and

relationships, did much to make psychotherapy responsive to changing conditions. Among those just mentioned, Rank and Fromm were not physicians, and both had been trained in Europe. As time went on, Erik Erikson’s (1950, 1959) inte- gration of a psychosocial theory of development with Freud’s psychosexual theory opened psychoanalysis to the concepts of many of the rebels: an oral stage of trust versus mistrust; an anal stage of autonomy versus shame and doubt; a phallic stage of initiative versus guilt; a latency stage of industry ver- sus inferiority; an adolescent stage of identity versus identity diffusion; a young-adult stage of intimacy versus isolation; a middle-adult stage of generativity versus stagnation; and an old-age stage of integrity versus despair.

The ﬁrst American psychologist to develop a form of psychotherapy that was highly inﬂuential was Carl Rogers (1902–1987), who received his PhD in 1931 from Teachers College, Columbia University, where Leta Hollingworth su- pervised his clinical experiences with children. He continued clinical work with children until 1940, when he left to be- come a professor of psychology at Ohio State University and later the University of Chicago. By then his clinical work was mostly with college students. Rogers was heavily inﬂuenced by social worker Jesse Taft and especially by child psychia- trist and former school psychologist Frederick Allen, who in turn were much affected by what they had learned from Otto Rank. Originally, Rogers called his system of psychotherapy “nondirective” (Rogers, 1942). Later he called it “client- centered therapy” (Rogers, 1951), and eventually he and his followers referred to it as “person-centered.” No matter what it was called, it was distinguished by Rogers’s willingness to subject it and its practitioners to scientiﬁc scrutiny.

Rogers pioneered the recording of therapy sessions so that they could be analyzed in detail for purposes of research, su- pervision, and training. He argued that psychotherapy could become a science and believed there was a discoverable orderliness as the sessions continued to a successful end. Hypothesis testing was one of the hallmarks of his approach, and he tried to make explicit what conditions were essential for personality change: the therapist’s possession and mani- festations of unconditional positive regard, accurate empathy, genuineness, and congruence (Rogers, 1957). A consider- able research effort was undertaken to measure these attrib- utes and determine if they indeed were related to effective therapy. The results of 20 years of research led to the conclu- sion that the relationship between these attributes and positive change in patients remained in doubt (Parloff, Waskow, & Wolfe, 1978).

This period, extending from the 1930s through the 1950s, was the high-water mark in the prestige of psychotherapy, especially psychodynamic psychotherapy. In the 1960s,
