---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: eff57ab2dd076e3cc54a636c31e7c09c235c1057
title: untitled
---
# 70 Comparative Psychology

study of the reactions of frogs to four chlorides; genetics and development, such as Yerkes and Bloomﬁeld’s (1910) study of the reactions of kittens to mice; and learning, such as Coburn and Yerkes’s (1915) study of crows.

Edward Bradford Titchener dominated psychology at Cornell University. Although he is often portrayed as having opposed comparative psychology, he conducted a number of studies in the ﬁeld early in his career (Dewsbury, 1997). A prize student at Cornell was his ﬁrst PhD, Margaret Floy Washburn, who later became the second woman elected to the presidency of the APA. Her most notable contribution to comparative psychology was her book The Animal Mind (1908), that went through four editions and was the standard textbook in comparative psychology into the 1930s. Re- search at Cornell included a study of vision in ﬁsh (M. F. Washburn & Bentley, 1906) and one on learning in parame- cia (Day & Bentley, 1911). Even Edwin G. Boring (1912), future historian of psychology, published a study of phototro- pisms in ﬂatworms.

The pride of the program at the University of Chicago, directed by Angell, was John Broadus Watson. Although Watson became famous later in his career for his writings on behaviorism, he did work in comparative psychology dur- ing his younger years. His dissertation, Animal Education (Watson, 1903), was an early study in developmental psy- chobiology, as Watson tried to correlate the development of learning in rats with the development of the nervous system. Watson also studied imitation in monkeys and spent several summers studying noddy and sooty terns on the Dry Tortugas Islands off Florida (e.g., Watson & Lashley, 1915). This study anticipated some later research in ethology. Many psycholo- gists who know only his writings on behaviorism are surprised by his earlier thinking on instinctive behavior (Watson, 1912). Most of the other students in animal psy- chology at Chicago worked on rats, although Clarence S. Yoakum (1909) studied learning in squirrels.

Edward L. Thorndike had a brief, but extremely inﬂuen- tial, career in comparative psychology. After conducting some research with William James at Harvard, Thorndike moved to Columbia University, where he completed his PhD under James McKeen Cattell in 1898.After a year at Western Reserve University, he returned to Columbia, where he spent the remainder of his career, most of it as an educational psy- chologist. His dissertation, Animal Intelligence (Thorndike, 1898), was a classic study of cats learning to escape from puz- zle boxes; Thorndike (1911) later expanded this work with the addition of several previously published articles. He be- lieved that cats used simple trial and error to learn to operate manipulanda to escape from the compartments in which they had been enclosed; they kept emitting different behavioral

patterns until one was successful. Further, he believed that virtually all learning in all species followed the same laws of trial-and-error and reward (the law of effect). This provided little impetus for comparative analysis. Thorndike’s major contribution was the development of precise methods for careful study of learning in the laboratory. In the tradition of C. L. Morgan, Thorndike generally sought to explain behav- ior in terms of relatively simple processes and eschewed no- tions of insight in creative problem solving. T. Wesley Mills took a very different approach, closer to that of Romanes than to that of Morgan. This led to a bitter exchange of mutually critical articles. Mills emphasized the importance of testing under natural conditions, writing of Thorndike’s puzzle box experiments that one might “as well enclose a living man in a cofﬁn, lower him, against his will, into the earth, and attempt to deduce normal psychology from his conduct” (Mills, 1899, p. 266). Thorndike (1899) defended his research as the only way “to give us an explanatory psychology and not fragments of natural history” (p. 415).

Karl S. Lashley, best known as a physiological psycholo- gist, also had a lifelong interest in comparative psychology. He was inﬂuenced by Watson at Johns Hopkins and spent one summer working with him on the tern project. Lashley inﬂu- enced comparative psychology not only through his research and integrative writings but also through his students. Harry M. Johnson was another Hopkins-trained comparative psy- chologist, as exempliﬁed in his study of visual pattern dis- crimination in dogs, monkeys, and chicks (Johnson, 1914). Other comparative psychologists in graduate school dur- ing this period included John F. Shepard at the University of Michigan, who did many studies of learning in ants and rats (see Raphelson, 1980), and William T. Shepherd at George Washington University, who worked on a variety of species (e.g., Shepherd, 1915).

Perhaps the most inﬂuential foreign-born comparative psychologist was Wolfgang Köhler, who completed a doctor- ate at the University of Berlin in 1909. Much of his career was devoted to the development and promotion of Gestalt psychology. His major work in comparative psychology was conducted on the island of Tenerife in the Canary Islands dur- ing World War I. Köhler’s best-known studies were of prob- lem solving with chimpanzees. These studies used such tasks as the stacking of boxes to reach a banana suspended above the animals’enclosure and stick problems in which the chim- panzees had to manipulate sticks of one sort or another to reach a banana that was placed outside of the enclosure where it could be reached with a stick but not without it (Köhler, 1925).

Little original theory was created during this period. The guiding theoretical framework came from the theory of

evolution. Attention was devoted to building an empirical foundation for the ﬁeld. The range of species studied was ex- tensive. Although the study of learning came to be especially prominent, there was much research on sensory function, de- velopment, and social behavior as well. Although only a few comparative psychologists studied animal behavior in the ﬁeld, many were aware of the place of their study subjects in nature and used that awareness in understanding behavior.

Although the foundations for a stable ﬁeld of comparative psychology appeared to have been laid, it was not to be—at least not yet. A number of problems arose. The major difﬁ- culty lay in the place of comparative psychology, as a study of behavior in animals, in psychology, a discipline most viewed as the study of mind and behavior in humans. Despite its intellectual and historical connections with the rest of psy- chology, comparative psychology was perceived as a periph- eral ﬁeld. Pressures were brought to bear on those trained in comparative psychology to switch and move to other re- search areas, especially applied ﬁelds. At Harvard, for exam- ple, Münsterberg (1911) wrote of Yerkes to President Abbott Lawrence Lowell that “anyone interested in those animal studies alone is in no way a real psychologist, and really no longer belongs in the philosophy department.” The situation was complicated because psychologists doing laboratory studies of animals required special facilities that were both expensive and viewed by some as undesirable because of odor and atmosphere. Some had philosophical objections to animal research. It became clear to many that the path to pro- motion was to leave comparative psychology for applied ﬁelds (Dewsbury, 1992). As a result, most comparative psy- chologists educated during these years followed such paths and left the ﬁeld. The American entry into World War I and the loss of personnel to military endeavors exacerbated the situation.
