# Strong Interest Inventory

During the academic year 1919–1920, E. K. Strong Jr. (1884–1963) attended a graduate seminar on interest mea- surement while attending the Carnegie Institute of Technol- ogy. What he learned in this seminar peaked his curiosity about whether interests could be measured in ways that would predict what kinds of occupations a person would ﬁnd enjoyable. In pursuit of this goal, Strong ﬁrst developed a list of statements about various activities that test respondents could endorse as something they liked or disliked to do. He then keyed these statements to different occupations on the basis of how people employed in these occupations re- sponded to them. This latter procedure introduced empiri- cal keying methodology to interest measurement, just as Hathaway and McKinley would later introduce it to person- ality measurement in constructing the MMPI. Several years of developmental work resulted in the publication of the Strong Vocational Interest Blank (SVIB) (Strong, 1927). For persons taking this test, the results provided direct informa- tion concerning the extent to which their patterns of interests were similar to or different from those of people working as lawyers, teachers, production managers, and the like.

Like other self-report inventories that have found an en- during place in assessment psychology, the SVIB has been extensively revised since its original publication. The number of occupations in its empirical base has been increased sub- stantially, its initially strictly empirical approach to interpret- ing the implications of its scale scores has been ampliﬁed by theoretical perspectives on the classiﬁcation of occupa- tional interests, and its name has evolved into the Strong Interest Inventory (SII) (Hansen & Campbell, 1985; Harmon, Hansen, Borgen, & Hammer, 1994). Stable since its incep- tion, however, has been the status of Strong’s instrument as the most frequently used among all interest inventories.