data/clean/untitled__chunk0797.md, before:

# Intelligence Operationally Deﬁned

E. G. Boring (1923), in an article in the New Republic, pro- posed that intelligence is what the tests of intelligence test. Boring did not believe that this operational deﬁnition was the end of the line for understanding intelligence. On the con- trary, he saw it as a “narrow deﬁnition, but a point of de- parture for a rigorous discussion . . . until further scientiﬁc discussion allows us to extend [it]” (p. 35). Nevertheless, many psychologists and especially testers and interpreters of tests of intelligence have adopted this deﬁnition or something similar to it.

From a scientiﬁc point of view, the deﬁnition is problem- atical. First, the deﬁnition is circular: It deﬁnes intelligence in terms of what intelligence tests test, but what the tests test can only be determined by one’s deﬁnition of intelligence. Sec- ond, the deﬁnition legitimates rather than calling into scien- tiﬁc question whatever operations are in use at a given time to measure intelligence. To the extent that the goal of science is to disconﬁrm existing scientiﬁc views (Popper, 1959), such a deﬁnition will not be useful. Third, the deﬁnition assumes that what intelligence tests test is uniform. But this is not the case. Although tests of intelligence tend to correlate posi- tively with each other (the so-called positive manifold ﬁrst noted by Spearman, 1904), such correlations are far from per- fect, even controlling for unreliability. Thus, what an intelli- gence test tests is not just one uniform thing. Moreover, even the most ardent proponents of a general factor of intelligence (a single element common to all of these tests) acknowledge there is more to intelligence than just the general factor.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk0797.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 45c76f62275578cd03dbc782fa65dbe3b4513f3d
title: untitled
---
## EXPERT OPINIONS ON THE NATURE OF INTELLIGENCE

Historically, one of the most important approaches to ﬁguring out what intelligence is has relied on the opinions of experts. Such opinions are sometimes referred to as implicit theories, todistinguishthemfromthemoreformalexplicittheoriesthat serve as the bases for scientiﬁc hypotheses and subsequent data collections. Implicit theories (which can be those of laypersonsaswellasofexperts)areimportanttothehistoryof a ﬁeld for at least three reasons (R. J. Sternberg, Conway, Ketron, & Bernstein, 1981). First, experts’ implicit theories are typically what give rise to their explicit theories. Second, much of the history of intelligence research and practice is much more closely based on implicit theories than it is on for- maltheories.Mostoftheintelligenceteststhathavebeenused, forexample,arebasedmoreontheopinionsoftheircreatorsas towhatintelligenceisthanonformaltheories.Third,people’s everyday judgments of each other’s intelligence always have been and continue to be much more strongly guided by their implicit theories of intelligence than by any explicit theories.
