# The Feminist Study of Women’s Lives

Many feminist researchers have investigated the experiences of diverse groups of women and girls, situating their research in speciﬁc historical and cultural contexts. Often these re- searchers have chosen to study women as intentional actors, relying on such methods as open-ended interviews and focus groups rather than measurement of abstract psychologi- cal constructs. They have examined diverse experiences of women in contemporary society: poor and working-class young women coping with cuts in welfare (Fine & Weis, 1998); dual-career professional couples (Gilbert, 1993); women living amidst political turmoil and state-sponsored terrorism (Lykes, 1989); lesbian and gay teenagers and their peer and family networks (Russell, Bohan, & Lilly, 2000); rural working-class girls (L. M. Brown, 1998); suburban and urban teenagers’ sexual desire (Tolman & Szalacha, 1999); and women coping with physical illness and impairment (Ussher, 2000). Others have examined the lives and experi- ences of women during particular historical episodes, such as the internment of Japanese Americans in the United States during World War II and the civil-rights movement of the 1950s (Franz & Stewart, 1994; Romero & Stewart, 1999). Particularly notable has been the large body of research on violence against girls and women, including rape and sexual assault, incest, wife battering, and sexual harassment (e.g., Gordon & Riger, 1989; Gutek, 1985; Herman, 1992; Koss, 1993; Walker, 1979; Yllo & Bograd, 1988).

Feminist researchers’ concern with the particulars of women’s experiences and situations sets them apart from the mainstream of psychological research. From the 1940s on- ward, research in mainstream journals has relied more and more on college student samples, even though such samples are not representative of the population at large with regard to age, social class, ethnicity, marital status, maturity, and many other aspects of experience (Sears, 1986). Yet, although femi- nist psychology has incorporated studies of women at diverse points in the life cycle, we still know little about many aspects of women’s lives: sexuality and sexual desire, childbirth and motherhood, inequality in the relationships of heterosexual couples, and midlife and aging. The gaps in knowledge about women are especially acute when it comes to women who are not white and women who are not middle class. As Pamela Reid (1993) has pointed out, women who are ethnic minori- ties, poor, or working class are given little attention by researchers except when they are seen as creating social prob- lems. For example, there is abundant research on out-of- wedlock pregnancy among African American teenagers but

little research on areas of strength and resilience such as skills forcopingwithracism,commitmenttoacademicachievement andlaborforceparticipation,andspiritualityandchurchmem- bership. Although minority and working-class heterosexual couples often have unconventional divisions of domestic re- sponsibilities and child care, this too has not been studied. In short, feminist psychology has not yet adequately addressed the diversity of women’s lives, despite ongoing efforts to do so. The knowledge base, though it is expanding, is still shaped bytheprioritiesofacademicinstitutionsandfundingagencies, allowing limited scope for innovation.