# World War II Era

For many historians of social psychology, the two world wars often bracket signiﬁcant shifts within the discipline. Both world wars brought with them pronounced expansions of psychology, ones that eventually found their way into nearly every facet of daily life (Capshew, 1999; Herman, 1995). In reﬂecting on changes wrought by the war years to social psy- chology, Kurt Lewin (1947/1951) speculated that new devel- opments in the social sciences might prove “as revolutionary as the atom bomb” (p. 188). What he seemed to have in mind is how the social sciences informed one another in treating social facts as a reality as worthy of scientiﬁc study as are physical facts. He also observed developments in research tools and techniques and a move among the social sciences away from classiﬁcation systems to the study of “dynamic problems of changing group life” (p. 188). What Lewin could not have imagined at the time, however, were those very depths to which the “atomic age” would rearrange sociopolit- ical life and the ﬁeld of social psychology. In his own time Lewin’s optimism for social psychology counterbalanced Carl Murchison’s more gloomy tone in the 1935 edition of The Handbook of Social Psychology: “The social sciences at the present moment stand naked and feeble in the midst of the political uncertainty of the world” (p. ix). The turnaround in these intervening years was so dramatic that Gardner Lindzey was moved to declare in the 1954 Handbook that Murchison’s edition was not simply “out of print” but “out of date.” Lindzey measured out social psychology’s advance by the expansion of the handbook to two volumes. But more than quantity had changed. Comparing the table of contents over these years is telling of social psychology’s changing face. In 1935 natural history and natural science methods applied to social phenomena across species; the history of “man” and cultural patterns were strikingly predominant relative to experimental studies. By 1954 social psychology was given a formal stature, deserving of a history chapter by Gordon Allport, a section on theories and research methods in social psychology, and a second volume of empirical, experimental, and applied research.

On many counts, during and after World War II experi- mental social psychology ﬂourished like never before under military and government funding and a newfound mandate of social responsibility, which, in combination, may have served to blur the line between science and politics writ large, between national and social scientiﬁc interests (Capshew, 1999; Finison, 1986; Herman, 1995). Questions turned to

matters of morale (civilian and military), social relations (group and intergroup dynamics), prejudice, conformity, and so on (Deutsch, 1954; Lewin, 1947/1951), and they often carried a kind of therapeutic slant to them in the sense of restoring everyday U.S. life to a healthy democracy. To quote Herman (1995), “Frustration and aggression, the logic of per- sonality formation, and the gender dynamics involved in the production of healthy (or damaged) selves were legiti- mate sources of insight into problems at home and conﬂicts abroad” (p. 6). Psychologists’ work with civilians and the military, with organizations and policy makers, parlayed into new relations of scientiﬁc psychological practice, including those between “scientiﬁc advance, national security, and do- mestic tranquility” and between “psychological enlighten- ment, social welfare, and the government of a democratic society” (Herman, 1995, p. 9). As Catherine Lutz (1997) writes, military and foundation funding of social psychologi- cal research, such as Hadley Cantril’s on foreign and domes- tic public opinion or the Group Psychology Branch of the Ofﬁce of Naval Research, once combined with the “culture and political economy of permanent war more generally, shaped scientiﬁc and popular psychology in at least three ways—the matters deﬁned as worthy of study, the epistemol- ogy of the subject that it strengthened, and its normalization of a militarized civilian subjectivity” (pp. 247–248).