---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 5e632def767e0163b431583a76f245a352c262ca
title: untitled
---
# AN IDENTITY FOR COUNSELING PSYCHOLOGY

A conference titled “The Training of Psychological Coun- selors” was held at the University of Michigan in July 1948, and again in January of 1949. Under the direction of Michigan faculty member and counseling center director Edward Bordin, the participants sought to provide a training that would address the unique contributions that model counseling and guidance could make to a national program of mental health. The proposals offered at the Michigan meeting were passed along to Division 17, which along with the APA sponsored the Northwestern Conference in 1951. In an effort to produce a formal statement on the training of counseling psychologists, the participants at Northwestern University reviewed the recommendations of the Ann Arbor group and the Boulder Conference. Upon deliberation, they upheld the primacy of the PhD degree and advocated train- ing in the fashion of the scientist-practitioner. In addition, they identiﬁed those aspects of counseling and guidance that made it unique. It was decided to change the name of the division from “counseling and guidance” to “counseling psychology,” a move no doubt in concert with a desire to have the division look more similar to clinical psychology than educational guidance. In addressing the roles and func- tions of the counseling psychologist, the report (APA, 1952) stated:

The professional goal of the counseling psychologist is to foster the psychological development of the individual. This includes all people on the adjustment continuum from those who function at tolerable levels of adequacy to those suffering from more se- vere psychological disturbances. Counseling psychologists will spend the bulk of their time with individuals within the normal range, but their training should qualify them to work in some degree with individuals at any level of psychological adjustment. Counseling stresses the positive and the preventative. It focuses upon the stimulation of personal development in order to maximize personal and social effectiveness and to forestall psy- chologically crippling disabilities. (p. 175)
