---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: ebe82e07bc27216ab28cf22ce41ead20caa3c1b7
title: untitled
---
## ORGANIZATIONAL STRUGGLES AND TRAINING MODELS

Clinicians persisted in trying to get the APA to address their professional concerns, but theAPAstill wavered. In 1931, the Clinical Psychology section of the APA tried to set standards for a training program in clinical psychology. A committee was appointed and within 4 years issued its report: Clinical psychology was deﬁned as “that art and technology which deals with the adjustment problems of human beings”; it re- quiredofitspractitionersthePhDandayearofsupervisedex- perience; an MAand a year’s experience would qualify one to be an assistant psychologist (Report of Committee, 1935). Then considering its task ﬁnished, this committee disbanded. Evidently tiring of frustration, in 1937 the Clinical Psy- chology section of the APA dissolved itself and became in- stead a section of a new organization known as the American Association of Applied Psychology (AAAP). This clinical section had 229 members at its founding (Routh, 1994, 1997). When the clinical section had ﬁrst afﬁliated with APA, part of the agreement had been that the section would be al- lowed to continue its focus on the professional as well as the scientiﬁc aspects of the ﬁeld. As time went on, the APA did not live up to this agreement, and the section’s annual meet- ing became merely a place to read scientiﬁc papers. Also, the APA had agreed to set up a system for certifying “consulting psychologists” as qualiﬁed to offer their services to the public. Only 25 persons were ever so certiﬁed before the sys- tem was discontinued in 1927. The AAAP also incorporated the Association of Consulting Psychologists, which had been founded in 1931, and began publishing its Journal of Con- sulting Psychology. (It continues to enjoy a ﬁne reputation as a premier publication for clincians’research as the Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology.)

With all this unrest and with all the excitement psycho- analysis and its offshoots were generating in psychiatry and in the culture, it is small wonder that clinicians began to want to become more involved in treatment and saw their roles as researchers, psychometricians, and educators to be somewhat lacking in prestige, status, and pizzazz. Could treating enure- sis by a bell and pad apparatus (Mowrer & Mowrer, 1938) compare in sophistication with determining why a child

unconsciously resisted the toilet-training efforts of parents? World events would shortly push that question a bit to the side and afford clinicians an unprecedented opportunity for the growth of their profession. But before we consider the momentous events that happened—U.S. participation in the Second World War from 1941 to 1945—let us take a closer look at the training of clinicians in the prewar period.

If we examine those clinical psychologists who achieved eminence in the ﬁeld, as indicated by recognition from their colleagues through awards or election to ofﬁce in profes- sional organizations, we ﬁnd that many of them earned their doctorates from only a handful of schools. A list of schools whose graduates became prominent clinical psychologists is shown in Table 16.1. As this table shows, the University of Pennsylvania, Columbia, and Harvard had large numbers of successful graduates, with Columbia alone accounting for more than twice as many as any other school (Routh, 2000). Yet even at many of these universities, such as Harvard, there was no prescribed course work or training to become a clini- cal psychologist. David Shakow, for example, took what rel- evant courses and training he could, which he described as a “do-it-yourself program” (Shakow, 1976), and his experi- ences were more the rule than the exception.

TABLE 16.1 Ofﬁcers and Awardees of Clinical Psychology Organizations with Doctoral Degrees Prior to 1946
