# Early Role of Hypnosis

After Mesmer was discredited in 1784, reputable study of hypnotic phenomena in France languished until the 1870s and the work of Jean-Martin Charcot (1825–1893), a physi- cian and director of research in neurological disorders at the Salpêtrière. Harrington (1987) presents a history of neomes- merism in late nineteenth century French psychiatry, and the background to Charcot’s involvement with hypnosis.

In 1876, Victor Burq, a physician, sent to Claude Bernard, then president of the Sociéte de Biologie of Paris, an account of how he had cured women who suffered from hysterical hemianesthesia by applying metallic discs to the afﬂicted side of their bodies (a procedure known as “metalloscopy”), with a request that Bernard arrange for his work to be investigated and validated. Bernard appointed a committee, consisting of Charcot, Jules Bernard Luys, and Amédee Dumontpallier. A yearlater,thecommitteereportedthattheyhadconﬁrmedthat Burq’s claimed metallic effects were genuine, although it was not clear if these effects were lasting. Furthermore they had found that the symptoms of hysterical hemianesthesia could be transferred from one side of the body to the other with ap- plication of metal disks (and later, magnets). When sensation was restored to a region on one side of the body, symmetrical regions on the healthy side lost normal sensibility. It was

suggested that the metals effected a dynamic transfer of a functional lesion responsible for the anesthesia from one hemisphere of the brain to the other. These ﬁndings stimu- lated further research by Alfred Binet, Charles Féré, Joseph Babinski,andothers,andledtoCharcot’sinterestinhypnosis.