---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a0457ac53837f461fc6c67c2246724c770981891
title: untitled
---
# Industrial-Organizational Psychology

Interest Inventory. The Carnegie program trained and pre- pared future applied psychologists, especially women, and paved the way for research, applications, and collaborative efforts with industry (Hilgard, 1987). Despite its success, the Division of Applied Psychology was dissolved in 1924 by a new university president who did not support the enterprise (Hilgard, 1987).

Following World War I, opportunities for psychology pro- liferated because of a heightened awareness of psychological applications and an increased concern for personnel issues by management (Baritz, 1960; Hilgard, 1987). Forward-looking executives wanted to extend techniques and programs devel- oped for the army into private industry (Katzell & Austin, 1992). Consequently, consulting ﬁrms formed to respond to the needs of business and industry. Scott and colleagues at the Army’s Committee on Classiﬁcation and Personnel formed The Scott Company in 1919.The consultants used techniques such as mental ability group tests, “job standards for career progression and personnel planning, a performance rating system, oral trade tests and apprentice training materials, and a program of personnel administration” (Katzell & Austin, 1992, p. 807). The company advocated a future-oriented philosophy of cooperative labor relations that was adopted in the men’s garment industry (Gordon & Burt, 1981). Mary Holmes Stevens Hayes, a psychologist, was hired as a con- sultant (one of the ﬁrst woman professional consultants) (Koppes, 1997), and she collaborated with Scott in writing a book for professional personnel managers entitled Science and Common Sense in Working with Men (Scott & Hayes, 1921). The Scott Company disbanded in the early 1920s because of ﬁnancial difﬁculties and because its founder left to become president of Northwestern University.

James McKeen Cattell organized the Psychological Corporation in 1921. Twenty inﬂuential psychologists were directors, and approximately 170 psychologists held stock (Cattell, 1923). The organization was formed for the “advancement of psychology and the promotion of the useful applications of psychology” (Cattell, 1923, p. 165). Accord- ing to Burnham (1987), the Psychological Corporation was created to popularize psychology, and the founders tried to set standards for applied psychology. The corporation failed miserably under Cattell’s leadership, however. Although Cattell espoused the application of psychology, he had never himself been an applied psychologist. Consequently, he pro- vided little direction to those who worked under him (Sokal, 1981). Sokal (1981) noted that both Cattell’s ineffective lead- ership and the context in which the corporation existed ex- plain the company’s failure. By the end of the 1920s, several applied psychology endeavors and the mental-testing move- ment had failed. Subsequent leaders (e.g., Bingham) of

the Psychological Corporation were successful in sharing and implementing psychological techniques for 50 years (Katzell & Austin, 1992). For example, the Differential Apti- tude Test and the Bennett Test of Mechanical Comprehension are widely used today.

Private companies hired full-time psychologists to handle personnel problems (e.g., Kaufman Department Store, Aetna Life Insurance, Procter & Gamble, Milwaukee Railway and Light Company, Scoville Manufacturing Company) (Katzell &Austin, 1992). In 1919, R. H. Macy and Company in NewYork hired psychologist Elsie Oschrin Bregman to ex- amine the company’s personnel processes. Bregman (1922) wrote about disputes over the use of psychological tests for personnel purposes in industry. She described how the com- pany took the lead in researching tests in the ﬁeld: “[A]bout three years ago, an almost unprecedented experiment was begun. Almost never before had a psychological laboratory been equipped in an industrial organization, certainly not a department store, and a psychologist commissioned to exper- iment in his own ﬁeld of science” (Bregman, 1922, p. 696). Research on personnel issues (e.g., selection, placement, fa- tigue, safety) in organizations ﬂourished during the 1920s (e.g., Bregman, 1922; Pond, 1927). The Personnel Research Federation was created in 1921 under the auspices of the National Research Council to advance “scientiﬁc knowl- edge about men and women in relation to their occupations” (Bingham, 1928, p. 299).

A widely publicized research study conducted in an orga- nization was the Hawthorne studies (e.g., Gillespie, 1988; Roethlisberger & Dickson, 1939). The original purpose of the study was to examine the relationship between illumination levels and productivity.Aserendipitous ﬁnding was that work groupsandattitudeshadaneffectonperformance.(Adetailed description of the study is presented by Roethlisberger and Dickson, 1939, and Gillespie, 1988.) These studies were im- portanttotheevolutionofI-Opsychologyforseveralreasons. The researchers demonstrated the feasibility of conducting scientiﬁc research in organizational settings. Personnel man- agement as a specialized function was recognized and legit- imized (Gillespie, 1988). Supervisory personnel training as an important management activity was discovered (Gillespie, 1988). In addition, a human-relations movement arose in in- dustrial psychology because of these studies. When Viteles revised his 1932 textbook, he found that the ﬁeld had changed dramatically and in 1953 had to rename his book Motivation and Morale in Industry to better represent the discipline (Katzell &Austin, 1992).

Beginning in the 1950s and through the 1960s, the nation’s manufacturing-based economy evolved into a service-based economy, changing the economic/business objective from

efﬁciency to one of quality or customer service. During the late 1950s, more than 50% of the workforce consisted of ser- vice employees (Katzell & Austin, 1992). This shift created changesintheorganization’sstructureandthenatureofwork, increasing attention to organizational characteristics and their impact on employee attitudes and behaviors. The socioeco- nomic forces described in the previous section combined with business changes inspired researchers to investigate job satisfaction, motivation, intergroup and intra- group relations, communication, and inﬂuence and power. The Research Center for Group Dynamics created the journal Administrative Science Quarterly in 1955 so researchers could share their work on various social topics.

leadership,

Although numerous long-range research programs were conducted in several organizations, an important one worth noting here was begun at the American Telephone and Tele- graph Company (AT&T) in 1956. The basic purpose of the study was to discover qualities related to managerial success and advancement in the company. Results revealed that test and inventory scores as well as staff judgments on several dimensions predicted salaries and advancement to middle management over several years (Howard & Bray, 1988). This research effort by Bray and his colleagues “stands out as one of the most carefully designed and com- prehensive longitudinal studies ever conducted” (Dunnette, 1998, p. 140).

Flagging productivity in the 1960s and 1970s forced com- panies to look at new ways of managing. They examined their foreign competitors’ successes and consequently changed from individualistic, authoritarian systems to structures em- phasizing groups, teamwork, employee participation, and total quality management (1986–1987 SIOP past president Sheldon Zedeck, personal communication, July 6, 2000). With the advent of organization development (OD) as an at- tempt to better understand the process of group dynamics, the assumption that developing people would create healthier and more effective organizations changed to the assumption that developing organizations would create healthier and more effective people (Mirvis, 1988).

In the 1980s, stagnant productivity, threats to economic well-being, and American companies’failure to adapt to eco- nomic circumstances raised concerns about productivity, util- ity, and quality. Although the foundations for utility analyses had been offered earlier (e.g., Brogden, 1946), it was not until the 1980s that serious attention to utility analysis surfaced (Cascio, 1991). In addition, a renewed interest in OD reestab- lished the relationship between employees and organizations (Muchinsky, 2000). Some I-O psychologists view OD as a symbiosis of scientists and practitioners (e.g., Lowenberg & Conrad, 1998).
