---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 141c6e3c76acfdaae948aa38d758fc84553d6725
title: untitled
---
# Training in Europe

In Europe, education and training in health psychology is characterized by wide variation in models and requirements for practice across countries. Marks and colleagues (1998) note that “many European countries still do not yet train health psychologists in any speciﬁc and specialized manner” (p. 156). However, the development of high-quality, formal- ized training in health psychology has been a key concern for the EFPA and the EHPS. Both organizations, separately and in collaboration, have addressed these issues through the or- ganization of task forces, committees, symposia, and publi- cations (e.g. Johnston, 1994; Maes & Kittel, 1990; Marks, 1994a, 1994b; McIntyre et al., 2000; Methorst, Jansen, & Kerkhof, 1991).

An important outcome that resulted from these efforts was the creation in 1992 of a task force that had among its objec- tives, as noted previously, the development of training guide- lines for professional health psychologists. Requirements fall into eight categories (Marks et al., 1998) and are very similar to the U.S. core curriculum: academic knowledge base (psychology), academic knowledge base (other), application of psychological skills to health care delivery, research skills, teaching and training skills, management skills, professional issues, and ethical issues.

Currently,thereisanefforttodevelopacommonframework regarding time and contents of qualiﬁcation for professional practice in psychology under the Europsych Project (Lunt, 2000). This is particularly important given the European Eco- nomic Community (EEC) directive on free movement of pro- fessionals between member states. The ﬁrst matrix proposed is for a 6-year minimal requirement equivalent to a master’s degree, including generic training with later specialization, whichisthetypicaldurationofhealthpsychologyprofessional training in Europe. However, there is strong sentiment that diversityineducationandtrainingpatternsbepreserved.

The EHPS has conducted two surveys regarding education and training programs in health psychology in Europe that demonstrate the development of the ﬁeld.Asurvey conducted in 1988 (Methorst et al., 1991) in 19 European countries,

NorthAmerica, andAustralia concluded that true specialized training programs in health psychology existed only in the United States and Canada. In Europe, postgraduate training was part of clinical psychology, and doctoral training was typically based on writing a dissertation. In 1999, the EHPS created an Education and Training Committee that had as its ﬁrst task the development of a reference guide to postgradu- ate programs in health psychology in Europe (McIntyre et al., 2000). In the 23 countries surveyed, 133 programs in health psychology or with a health psychology component were identiﬁed. Of these programs, 86 lead to a master’s degree and 47 to a doctoral degree. Although indicating an impressive expansion of training in the ﬁeld, doctoral training typically consists of an independent course of study; American-style formalized doctoral training programs in health psychology in Europe are still scarce. In terms of mod- els of training, the scientist-practioner model continues to be considered central for professional training. However, the ap- plicability of theAmerican standard of PhD training to Euro- pean settings has been discussed through the years (e.g., Maes, 1999; Maes & Kittel, 1990).
