data/clean/untitled__chunk2250.md, before:

# Current Issues in Forensic Psychology

The importance of improving psychologists’ abilities to assess the potential for future violence among offenders and persons with mental illnesses was driven also by legal cases during the 1980s. Most notable among these was Barefoot v. Estelle (1983), in which the U.S. Supreme Court acknowl- edged experts’ inability to provide reliable predictions but, ironically, determined that they should continue to be con- sulted by the courts. Several large-scale research projects to improve our abilities to assess the risk of future violence began in the 1980s and had a major impact on practice when their results emerged in the 1990s. Among these were the work of researchers who developed and validated compre- hensive violence risk assessment tools to provide estimates of likelihood of reoffending among prisoners (e.g., Quinsey, Harris, Rice, & Cormier, 1998), likelihood of future violence related to psychopathy (Hare, 1996), and likelihood of vio- lence among persons with mental disorders after their release from psychiatric hospitals (Steadman et al., 1998).

Research to improve our conceptualization and assess- ment of abilities related to legal competencies grew exponen- tially throughout the 1980s and 1990s. Reviews of research on competence to stand trial (Roesch, Zapf, Golding, & Skeem, 1999) describe the development of important and basic information regarding the legal process for determining competence, as well as the validation of structured assess- ment tools for obtaining relevant psycholegal information on defendants in such cases (e.g., Poythress et al., 1999). Similar advances were made in substantial research projects culminating in data and assessment tools to improve evalua- tions of competence of patients to consent to treatment (e.g., Grisso & Appelbaum, 1998).

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk2250.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: d667bd1702f5e0c27975a9a048e7c55297cf8daf
title: untitled
---
# Clinical Forensic Evaluations

Little research was directed toward improving clinicians’ evaluations for the courts until the 1980s. This changed dramatically across the next 20 years, heralded by seminal works published early in the 1980s. Among these were Monahan’s (1981) treatise summarizing the serious limits of our abilities to assess and predict violent behavior, the ﬁrst book to summarize what we did and did not know about competence to stand trial as a legal and forensic assessment issue (Roesch & Golding, 1980), the publication of a system- atic model for the future development of instruments to as- sess a variety of legal competencies (Grisso, 1986), and the ﬁrst comprehensive texts on the full range of forensic psy- chological evaluations for the courts in criminal, civil, and juvenile cases (Melton, Petrila, Poythress, & Slobogin, 1987; Weiner & Hess, 1987).
