# Basic Knowledge Domain

As the ﬁeld evolved, the question of what constituted the knowledge domain that deﬁnes forensic psychology became more salient. This was particularly important from the per- spective of training forensic psychologists. A National Con- ference on Education and Training in Law and Psychology, popularly known as the Villanova Conference, addressed this issuein1995.Theconferenceparticipantsidentiﬁedﬁveareas crucial for properly educating a competent scholar of psy- chology and law. The ﬁrst was substantive psychology, a core knowledge of basic areas of psychology (e.g., developmental,

social, cognitive, and abnormal psychology), as well as an un- derstanding of important ethical and professional issues. The second area was knowledge of research design and statistics. Third was basic legal knowledge, the ability to “think like a lawyer,” learning the basic tools of law and the core substance of the law itself. The fourth area was labeled substantive legal psychology, which involves an understanding of how social- scientiﬁc evidence is used in law. The ﬁnal area, called scholarship and training, included the experience of conduct- ing original dissertation research. The conference participants also noted that it would be especially helpful if additional opportunities were provided for students to obtain appropriate real-life experience in legislative, administrative, and judicial settings. It has been asserted that the competent psycholegal scholar must be “trilingual,” familiar with scientiﬁc psychol- ogy, the law, and the psychology-law interface. This would seem to be a most challenging training situation (e.g., see Bersoff, Goodman-Delahunty, Grisso, Hans, Roesch, & Poythress, 1997).