# Conﬂuence of Dynamic Forces

more than machines, tools, procedures, and inventory con- trol. “It meant, ﬁrst of all, the people who did the jobs” (Gilbreth, 1970, p. 103). The primary importance of scientiﬁc management for I-O psychology was the study of work (Baritz, 1960) and the establishment of a precedent for scien- tists to enter organizations.

The emergence of capitalism and emphasis on efﬁciency forced companies to hire the most qualiﬁed employees; thus, selection and training were critical issues. Industrial psychol- ogists used mental tests that had been successful in education and in the armed forces to select hardworking and committed employees (Katzell & Austin, 1992). According to Van De Water (1997), mental tests were the ﬁeld’s ﬁrst technical product.

An emphasis on productivity during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries inﬂuenced organization leaders to explore ways to advertise, sell, and distribute their goods. Psychologists recognized the value of their discipline to these business issues as well. For example, Scripture (1895) wrote in his book Thinking, Feeling, Doing that advertisers could beneﬁt from psychology with regard to attention and mem- ory. Ayoung psychologist, Walter Dill Scott, was approached by a group of businessmen to present a speech about the value of psychology for advertising in 1901. He did so on the condition that his name not be published because he feared the disdain of his colleagues. This concern soon dissipated, as Scott in 1903 published a book titled The Theory of Advertis- ing (Ferguson, 1962–1965).

Interest in applying psychology to business problems provided opportunities for businesses and academic psy- chologists to collaborate. An important program for the development of I-O psychology was the Division of Ap- plied Psychology at Carnegie Institute of Technology (now Carnegie-Mellon University), which was established in 1915 with Walter VanDyke Bingham as the director (Hilgard, 1987). In 1916, a new department was formed, the Bureau of Salesmanship Research, headed by Scott. Scott and his col- leagues devised a multiple-component selection system for sales personnel that included a personal history blank (bio- data), a standard interview, a reference form, and a mental alertness test (Katzell & Austin, 1992). Later, the bureau was renamed the Bureau of Personnel Research. Bingham created another program, the School of Life Insurance Salesmanship, which trained several thousand life insurance salesmen (Hilgard, 1987). Following World War I, the Carnegie Insti- tute of Technology expanded its work to include sales train- ing, with the establishment of the Research Bureau of Retail Training. Vocational interests were researched, and E. K. Strong along with Karl Cowdery eventually developed the Strong Vocational Interest Blank, now known as the Strong

377

378