# Advent of Nosological Systems

In the latter half of the eighteenth century, nosological sys- tems organized diseases, described in detail, according to the model of systematic botany established by Linnaeus, the Swedish botanist, physician and founder of modern taxon- omy. William Cullen (1710–1790), a professor of medicine at the University of Edinburgh, was the most inﬂuential classi- ﬁer of disease of the time. The section on medicine in the ﬁrst edition of The Encyclopædia Britannica (1771), utilizes his system. The discussion of neuroses or nervous diseases states that melancholy and madness are related, melancholy being the primary disease and madness an augmentation of melan- choly. Both are caused by an excessive congestion of blood in the brain.

Jean Étienne Dominique Esquirol (1772–1840), Pinel’s student and successor at the Salpêtrière, was one of the ﬁrst to apply statistical methods to clinical studies and tabulate psy- chological causes. He elaborated the concept of monomania, a type of insanity that does not involve loss of reason, to designate an abnormally active, garrulous individual with “delirium” or disturbed thought process conﬁned to a fairly circumscribed cluster of ideas or interests. The condition sometimes appears abruptly and abruptly ceases, and often does not necessitate hospitalization (Esquirol, 1838). His stu- dent, Jules Philippe Joseph Falret (1824–1902) published a paper in 1854 on “circular insanity,” which he described as a clinically coherent and diagnostically distinct illness, charac- terized by an alteration between manic excitement and de- pression, typically with brief periods of reason (Sedler & Dessain, 1983). The DSM-III description of bipolar affective disorder is remarkably similar to Falret’s description of cir- cular insanity; it appears to be a speciﬁc disease with a clus- ter of typical symptoms, a particular course and prognosis, and a particular response to certain somatic treatments (such as, lithium, or electrical shock treatment).