## The Psychological Laboratory and the Psychological Experiment

Harvard with William James and Josiah Royce in 1890; Clark University professor Edmund Sanford tutored Calkins pri- vately in experimental psychology. In 1891, Calkins estab- lished the ﬁrst psychological laboratory at a women’s college at Wellesley College, one of the ﬁrst 12 laboratories in the United States (Furumoto, 1980). She developed the paired- associate technique for the study of verbal learning and mem- ory and published papers on her research and on experiments conducted with students in the Wellesley laboratory (Calkins, 1894a, 1894b).

She pursued further study in psychology with Hugo Münsterberg at Harvard, but not as an ofﬁcially registered student. Münsterberg petitioned Harvard’s president to allow Calkins to be admitted as a candidate for the PhD, but his re- quest was refused. In May 1895, after an unauthorized exami- nation, the following communication was forwarded to The Harvard Corporation: “At the examination, held . . . before Professors Palmer, James, Royce, Münsterberg, Harris, and Dr.SantayanaitwasunanimouslyvotedthatMissCalkinssat- isﬁed all the customary requirements for the degree” (cited in Furumoto, 1980, p. 62).Again, the PhD was denied (Harvard refusedtograntthedoctoraldegreetoawomanuntil1963).In 1902, four women who had completed graduate study at Harvard were offered PhD degrees from Radcliffe College. Radcliffe, established in 1894, offered almost exclusively undergraduatecourses;womenwhocompletedgraduatework didsoatHarvardUniversity.CalkinsrefusedtheRadcliffede- gree, seeing it as a symbol of Harvard’s refusal to admit women on an equal footing with men (Scarborough & Furumoto, 1987). In 1905, Mary Whiton Calkins became the ﬁrstwomanelectedtothepresidencyoftheAmericanPsycho- logicalAssociation.

By 1905, the functional point of view had become the dominant view in American psychology (Leahey, 1992). For his part, Angell claimed that functionalism could easily con- tain Calkins’s “Self Psychology,” “were it not for her extreme scientiﬁc conservatism in refusing to allow the self to have a body, save as a kind of conventional biological ornament” (Angell, 1907, p. 82). Calkins, and Titchener, did not reject the pursuit of identifying the physiological substrates of men- tal content and processes but placed that pursuit at a lower priority to the study of mind more directly. Indeed, Calkins extended the use of introspection to the study of abnormal experiences of the normal self and included the study by comparative means of abnormal individuals (Calkins, 1901, 1919) among the range of topics to be studied in the new psychology.

In these psychologies, introspection continued to serve as a method for the direct examination of conscious experience, but problems arose when introspective reports from different

11