data/clean/untitled__chunk1682.md, before:

# Relatively Structured Formats

However rich the information obtainable from unstructured interviews, and despite the ﬂexibility of an unstructured ap- proach in adapting to unpredictable variations in how inter- vieweesmaypresentthemselves,theseformatslacksufﬁciently standardized procedures to ensure replicable and reliable data collection. Mounting concerns that the unreliability of diag- nostic interviews in clinical settings were impeding mental health research led in the 1970s to the development of the ResearchDiagnosticCriteria(RDC),whichcomprisedasetof clearly speciﬁed descriptive behavioral criteria for assigning participants in research studies to one of several diagnostic categories (Spitzer, Endicott, & Robins, 1978). This descrip- tive behavioral approach noticeably improved the interrater reliability achieved by diagnostic interviewers, and the RDC format, including many of its speciﬁc criteria, was subse- quently incorporated into the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) of theAmerican PsychiatricAssociations, be- ginning with DSM-II in 1980 and extending to the present DSM-IV-TR (American PsychiatricAssociation, 2000).

The RDC criteria also lent themselves well to formulating questions to be asked in diagnostic interviews, and they soon gave rise to a new genre of assessment methods, a relatively structured interview that consists entirely or in large part of speciﬁc items of inquiry. Simultaneously with the publication of the RDC criteria, Endicott and Spitzer (1978) introduced the best known and most frequently used instrument of this

kind, the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia (SADS). Intended to assist in identifying a broad range of symptomatic disorders in addition to affective disorders and schizophrenia, the SADS is a semistructured interview guide that requires professional judgment and serves clinical as well as research purposes. Following on its heels came the Diagnostic Interview Schedule (DIS), which is entirely struc- tured and was designed for use by nonprofessional interview- ers in research studies (Robins, Helzer, Croughan, & Ratcliff, 1981). Both of these measures were extended downward for use with young people, as the Kiddie SADS (K-SADS; Puig- Antich & Chambers, 1978) and the Diagnostic Interview for Children (DISC; Costello, Edelbrock, & Costello, 1985). The most comprehensive measure of this kind to emerge has been the Structured Clinical Interview for the DSM (SCID), which includes forms for identifying personality as well as sympto- matic disorders (Spitzer, Williams, & Gibbon, 1987; see also R. Rogers, 2001).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk1682.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 77f5186eba2bca2d38c633f7f350ba5e3bb59213
title: untitled
---
# 290 Assessment Psychology

to the interviewing process fostered not only advances in prac- ticebutalsonewdevelopmentsinresearch.Unliketests,which entail a test form or written protocol that remains available for future review, interviews do not produce any written record other than whatever process notes may be made during or fol- lowing them. Recognizing that such notes are largely inade- quate for research purposes, Rogers, while serving as Director of the Counseling Center at the University of Chicago, began making tape recordings of clinical interviews as a means of obtainingreliabledataconcerningtheirexactcontent.Inthere- search program developed by Rogers and his colleagues, tape recordings were examined for various patterns of verbal inter- action between interviewer and interviewee during treatment sessions. This research on interactive processes in clinical in- terviews stimulated extensive studies of what became known as the “anatomy of the interview” (Matarazzo & Wiens, 1972; Pope,1979),andRogers’innovativeworkwasseminalaswell in fostering systematic psychotherapy research.

Because open-ended interviews require some supplemen- tation to serve assessment purposes adequately, various for- mal procedures and guidelines have been inserted over time into otherwise unstructured interviews. The most notable of these is the Mental Status Examination (MSE), ﬁrst pro- posed in 1902 by Adolf Meyer (1866–1950), a distinguished psychiatrist best known for championing a humane and “common-sense” approach to seriously disturbed persons that included thorough inquiry into their personal history and cur- rent circumstances. The MSE took form as a series of speciﬁc questions and tasks intended to provide a brief but standard- ized assessment of a person’s attention, memory, reasoning ability, social judgment, fund of knowledge, and orientation in time and space. As elaborated by Trzepacz and Baker (1993), a contemporary MSE also includes observations concerning a person’s general appearance, interpersonal conduct, prevail- ing mood, sense of reality, thought processes, self-awareness, and intellectual level.

The MSE has become a standard mental health assessment tool that is considered an integral part of diagnostic evalua- tions by most psychiatrists and is often used by psychologists as well, especially when they are not including any other for- mal tests among their procedures. Paralleling the previously mentioned interest in short forms of intelligence tests, the MSE has been particularly popular in an 11-item version de- veloped in the 1970s as the Mini Mental Status Examination (Folstein, Folstein, & McHugh, 1975). Whatever the length of an MSE, however, the information it provides emerges in fuller and more reliable form in a psychodiagnostic test battery, and psychological assessors who are including for- mal testing among their evaluation procedures rarely ﬁnd use for it.

Along with the development of the MSE as a semi- formal addendum, relatively unstructured assessment inter- views have been shaped by numerous interviewing outlines or schedules that identify topics to be covered (e.g., nature and history of presenting complaint, educational and occupa- tional history) and speciﬁc items of information that should regularly be obtained (e.g., basic demography, current med- ications, and history of substance use, suicidal behavior, and physical or sexual abuse). Such interview guides have long been standard topics in interviewing textbooks for mental health professionals (e.g., Craig, 1989; Morrison, 1993; Othmer & Othmer, 1994). From a historical perspective, one of the most comprehensive and psychologically sensitive but frequently forgotten contributions of this kind was made by George Kelley (1905–1966), who is known primarily for de- veloping personal construct theory and a personality assess- ment instrument he based on it, the Role Construct Repertory Test. In a classic book, The Psychology of Personal Con- structs, Kelley (1955) included several chapters on conduct- ing assessment interviews that provide excellent guidance by today’s standards as well as those of a half century ago.
