---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 3a61097a45b8a02c13be6a2375efcd54cbe1b610
title: untitled
---
## The Challenge of Change: Formation of the Association of Black Psychologists

hearings in the Supreme Court and in the court of public opinion. Expressions of dissatisfaction with the ongoing neglect of the rights and needs of those who fell outside the majority culture were everywhere and the ﬁeld of psychology was no exception. Psychology, like many other disciplines and institutions, was indicted for its neglect of issues impact- ing its members from traditionally underrepresented groups. African American psychologists were among the ﬁrst to organize and confront American psychology with a demand for change.

For most of the twentieth century, the steady growth in the numberofPhDsawardedinpsychologywasrestrictedlargely to whitemales.Theﬁrst PhD awardedto anAfricanAmerican came in 1920, the recipient being Frances Cecil Sumner (Guthrie, 1998). Between 1920 and 1966, 25 of America’s largest doctoral granting institutions in psychology awarded over10,000PhDs,93ofwhichweregrantedtoAfricanAmer- icans (Wispe et al., 1969). The barriers forAfricanAmericans seeking advanced study in psychology were many and long lasting. Those who did manage to carry on were never far from the realization of their marginalized status within psy- chology. This was clearly reﬂected in the relationship between African American psychologists and the largest professional organization of psychologists in America, the American PsychologicalAssociation (APA). Like the society in which it existed, the APA failed to address the needs of African Americans, both as psychologists and as consumers of psychology. Major training conferences, such as the 1949 Boulder Conference on Graduate Education in Clinical Psychology, concerned as it was with the mental health needs of the nation, did not include black psychologists (Baker & Benjamin, 2000). Indeed, it was not until the Vail conference of 1973 that issues of concern to minority psychologists would receive an extended hearing (Hilliard, 1973).

By the late 1960s, relations between the American Psy- chological Association and African American psychologists were not good. Some in the majority would argue that the organization had taken action. They would point to the policy statement of the 1950s afﬁrming that the association would only hold meetings in cities where there was no discrimina- tion based on race or religion (Newcomb, 1957). They would hold up as evidence the efforts of the Society for the Psycho- logical Study of Social Issues (SPSSI) that had demanded an examination of the training and employment needs of African American psychologists and in doing so helped to create the Committee on Equality of Opportunity in Psychology (CEOP) in 1963 (Guthrie, 1998).

theAPAwas not widely sought byAfricanAmerican psychol- ogists, largely based on the belief that the organization did not care to recognize or represent them (B. H.Williams, 1997).

African American psychologists were angry, a situation only made worse by social scientists whose reports to the federal government blamed theAfricanAmerican community for the ills that beset it. Most noticeably, the Moynihan report of 1965 offered as social science, a theory of urban decay based on the dysfunction of the black family. Unwilling to accept thatAfricanAmerican men, women, and children were to blame for the ravages of prejudice and discrimination, African American psychologists continued to organize. Reacting to the victim blaming of the Moynihan report, it was pointed out that white supremacy and racism were the culprits needing investigation, a conclusion afﬁrmed in part by the KernerCommissionreportof1968(Herman,1995).Refusing to accept a deﬁciency model, manyAfricanAmericans joined the chorus of the black identity movement, ﬁnding power and pride in a black identity that looked to African ancestry as a guide for life (Parham, White, & Ajamu, 2000). The synergy of the black power and identity movement and increasing frustration and alienation from theAPAhelped to set the stage for the formal organization of the Association of Black Psychologists (ABPsi).

In 1968, Abraham Maslow was president of the APA which had scheduled its annual meeting in San Francisco. Being in San Francisco in 1968 with a group of psychologists led by the humanist Maslow would seem to have all the in- gredients for a love in. For a group of African American psy- chologists in attendance, the love-in was out and organization and protestation were in.

The historical record is fairly clear in naming Charles Williams Thomas II (1926–1990) as the key organizer of the ABPsi (Guthrie, 1998; B. H. Williams, 1997). It was Williams who encouraged African American psychologists to attend the San Francisco meeting and engage in a dialogue about the formation of a national association. On the evening of August 31, 1968, Williams convened a small group meet- ing to discuss the discontent of African American psycholo- gists with the APA. The group called for the creation of a national association of African American psychologists and delineated a series of issues that demanded APA’s immediate attention. These included efforts to increase recruitment of African American students in psychology, greater representa- tion of African American psychologists within the APA, the development of means to provide mental health services to the African American community, and an endorsement rec- ognizing the black power and identity movement as a cred- itable tool for ﬁghting white racism.

For many African American psychologists, these deeds were seen as minor achievements, a smattering of actions that neglected signiﬁcantly larger and far more devastating social ills facing the African American community. Membership in

The next day, a larger gathering convened for further dis- cussion. In addition to conversation and debate, resolutions

493
