---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 2c4550d166cdfd06935b00bb859f8d3479c0d804
title: untitled
---
# THE BRAIN

Until the nineteenth century, the only method available to study brain function was the lesion, either in unfortunate hu- mans with brain damage or brain lesions done in infrahuman animals. The key intellectual issue throughout the history of the brain sciences was localization. To state the question in simplistic terms: Are psychological traits and functions local- ized to particular regions of the brain or are they widely dis- tributed in the brain?

The history of ideas about localization of brain function can be divided roughly into three eras. During the ﬁrst era, which spans from antiquity to about the second century A.D., debate focused on the location of cognitive function, al- though the discussion revolved around the issue of the soul, that is, what part of the body housed the essence of being and the source of all mental life (for reviews, see Finger, 1994; Gross, 1987; Star, 1989). In an early and particularly prophetic Greek version of localization of function, the soul was thought to be housed in several body parts, including the head, heart, and liver, but the portion of the soul associated with intellect was located in the head (McHenry, 1969). The individual whom many historians have viewed as having the greatest inﬂuence during this era was Galen, an anatomist of Greek origin. Using animals, he performed experiments that

provided evidence that the brain was the center of the ner- vous system and responsible for sensation, motion, and thinking (Finger, 1994; Gross, 1987).

In the second era (spanning the second to the eighteenth centuries), the debate focused on whether cognitive functions were localized in the ventricular system of the brain or in the brain matter itself. The inﬂuence of the church during this era cannot be overstated; for example, ethereal spirits (and ideas) were believed to ﬂow through the empty spaces of the brain’s ventricles. Nevertheless, by the ﬁfteenth and sixteenth cen- turies, individuals such as da Vinci and Vesalius were ques- tioning the validity of ventricular localization. Finally, during the seventeenth century, partly as a result of the strongly held views and proliﬁc writings of Thomas Willis, and during the eighteenth century, with the publication of clinical descrip- tions of cognitively impaired patients accompanied by crude descriptions of brain damage (e.g., Baader), the view that in- tellectual function was localized in brain matter and not in the ventricles became solidiﬁed (Clenending, 1942).

The nineteenth century to the present makes up the third era, and here debate has focused on how mental activities (or cognitive processes) are organized in the brain. An early idea, which became known as the localizationist view, proposed that speciﬁc mental functions were carried out by speciﬁc parts of the brain. An alternative idea, which became known as the equipotential view, held that large parts of the brain were equally involved in all mental activity and that there was no speciﬁcity of function within a particular brain area (Clark & Jacyna, 1987).

Perhaps the most inﬂuential idea about localization of brain function derived from Franz Joseph Gall during the early nineteenth century. Gall had been inﬂuenced somewhat by the earlier ideas of Albrecht von Haller (Clarke & Jacyna, 1987). In the mid-eighteenth century, Haller had developed a doctrine of brain equipotentiality, or a type of action com- mune. He believed that the parts of a distinguishable anatom- ical component of the brain—the white matter, for instance— performed as a whole, each area of white matter having equivalent functional signiﬁcance (Clarke & Jacyna, 1987). Indeed, one might characterize Gall’s ideas as a reaction against the equipotential view of Haller. Gall’s insight was that, despite its similarity in appearance, brain tissue was not equipotential but instead was actually made up of many dis- crete areas that had different and separate functions. Eventu- ally, Gall was able to characterize 27 different regions, or organs, of the brain in a scheme that he called organology. Later, the term phrenology came to be associated with Gall’s work. However, this term was coined by Gall’s colleague, Spurzheim, with whom he had a falling out, and Gall himself never used the term (Zola-Morgan, 1995).
