# 102 Sensation and Perception

fundamental data, and empirical strategies that had been de- veloped by physiology, since ultimately humans are simply physiological machines. It was in this context that Wundt de- veloped the subtractive method to measure mental function. An example of how the subtractive method works would be to ﬁrst measure the reaction time for a simple task, say by tapping a key at the onset of a light (call this Ts). Next the ob- server is given a more complex task, say one in which he had to make a decision as to whether the light was red or green, tapping a key with his right hand for red and with his left hand for green (call this Tc). Since the more complex task takes more mental computation, Tc is longer than Tn, and Wundt reasoned that the actual time that the decisional process takes, Td, could be computed by the simple subtrac- tion Td (cid:2) Tc (cid:4) Ts. This should give the researcher a metric. Reaction time should increase in direct proportion to the dif- ﬁculty of the decision or the number of decisions that had to be made.

Although this methodology generated a lot of research, concerns began to be expressed by some researchers. N. Lange, working in Wundt’s lab, found that attentional processes affected the length of the reaction time. Unattended or unexpected stimuli took longer to respond to, and paying attention to the response rather than to the stimulus also al- tered the reaction time. Other researchers, such as Oswald Klüpe (1862–1915), suggested that the method was not valid because the entire perceptual act is not simply the sum of simple sensory and decision times. Returning to the example above, suppose that we compare the time that it takes to de- tect a light (Ts) to the time that it takes to discern the locus of lights (e.g., whether a pair of lights were side by side or one above the other–Tl); now, following this decision we will also require the observer to add the color discrimination task that we described earlier (Tc). The addition of a second mental op- eration or sensory input was known as the complication method. Computing the decision time for the color task should produce the same value whether we base it on Tc (cid:4) Tl (where subjects are making two sequential decisions in a complication study) or Tc (cid:4) Ts (the single decision compared to the simple detection task), since the color decision (red versus green) added on to the ﬁrst task is identical. Yet this was never the case, which suggested that mental activity was not a linear process and was not subject to simple algebraic analysis. Because of this, studies of reaction time came to be viewed as suspect, and their popularity declined during the ﬁrst half of the twentieth century.

Reaction time would spring back into prominence as cog- nitive and information-processing approaches to perception became a problem of interest. The changes in reaction time with shifts in attention no longer would be viewed as a

methodologicalartifactbutrathercouldbeusedasamethodof studying attention itself. Furthermore, the underlying concep- tion that processing was a serial and linear process would be challenged, and reaction time would provide the vital mea- sures. It was Saul Sternberg, in a series of visual search and recognition studies (e.g., Sternberg, 1967), and Ulric Neisser in his 1967 book Cognitive Psychology, who rebuilt the repu- tationofreaction-timemethodology.Theyturnedtheapparent breakdown of the subtractive method into an investigative tool.Thus,inthoseinstancesinwhichadditionoftasksorsen- sory inputs increases reaction time, we clearly have a serial processing system where the output from an earlier stage of processing becomes the input for the next stage of processing. Because of this serial sequence, processing times increase as the number of mental operations increases. However, in those instances where adding tasks, stimuli, or sensory channels does not increase the reaction time, we are dealing with a par- allel and perhaps distributed processing network where many operationsareoccurringsimultaneously.Inthisway,reaction- timemethodologyallowsustoascertainthepatternornetwork of processing and not simply the complexity of processing. An example of parallel processing as it was originally conceptualized can be seen in a visual pattern recognition theory that emphasized feature extraction processes that all occur at the same time. It was originally called pandemo- nium, because, as a heuristic device, each stage in the analy- sis of an input pattern was originally conceived of as a group of demons shouting out the results of their analyses (Selfridge, 1959). According to the model, the contents of the retinal image are simultaneously passed to each of a set of feature demons, which actually are neurons that act like ﬁlters to detect speciﬁc features. All of these neurons do their processing at the same time, since copies of the original stim- ulus input are passed on to a number of neurons simultane- ously. The response of these ﬁltering neurons (the loudness with which the demons shout) is proportional to the ﬁt of the stimulus to the ﬁlter’s template. These outputs are judged si- multaneously by a large set of cognitive demons, which are actually more complex ﬁlters or neurons that respond to a particular combination of features in proportion to their ﬁt to the template. One of these will be a best ﬁt, and thus respond most vigorously. At the ﬁnal stage, a decision demon listens to the “pandemonium” caused by the yelling of the various cognitive demons. It chooses the cognitive demon (or pat- tern) that is making the most noise (responding most vigor- ously) as the one that is most likely to be the stimulus pattern presented to the sensory system and represents this as the ﬁnal conscious percept. Such parallel-distributed processing theories have become popular because they are easily repre- sented in a network form and thus can be implemented and

tested as computer models. In this way, the reaction-time data conﬁrms Herbart’s contention that theories of psychology should be dynamic and can be mathematical.