# CONCLUSION

The history of community psychology is unique in the history of psychology. Like other ﬁelds, the development of commu- nity psychology is not just a history of the profession but also a reﬂection of the interaction of social and cultural events and discontent within the broader ﬁeld of psychology. At a time when the nation was experiencing a cultural revolution, psy- chologists with a community orientation were questioning the status quo of the ﬁeld. Community psychologists protested the medical- and disease-driven model of the mental health professions, particularly psychiatry and clinical psychology, and rallied for ecologically sound interventions targeting social systems and institutions rather than individuals.

In this chapter, we aimed to understand the context and domains that have been essential to the development of the ﬁeld in a historical and social context. We began this en- deavor with a brief historical analysis of events leading up to the founding of the ﬁeld in 1965. The founding of the ﬁeld occurred during an awesome time in U.S. history. Though it emerged in the liberal fervor of the 1960s, psychologists’ calls for social action, social change, and social justice can be traced to social events of the 1940s and 1950s. Events such as World War II and the growing malaise of the 1950s, accom- panied by the increasing discontent among oppressed groups such as women and racial minorities, sparked creativity, in- novation, and protest in many areas of American life, includ- ing within the mental health professions. The zeitgeist of the