# Summary

I-O psychology shifted from a simple, narrowly deﬁned tech- nical ﬁeld focused on individual issues for accomplishing organizationalobjectivestoacomplex,broadscientiﬁcandap- plied discipline emphasizing individual and organizational is- suesforachievingbothindividualandorganizationalgoals. A challengeof thedisciplineisto maintainanidentity as arigor- ous scientiﬁc discipline while at the same time providing a growingrangeofprofessionalservicesandapplications.

A science–practice dichotomy has characterized the disci- pline since its inception. The roots of this dichotomy can be

traced to the founders of psychology in the late 1800s and early 1900s, when tension existed between individuals want- ingpsychologytobeapurescience(basic)separatefromprac- tical concerns and individuals wanting to apply psychology to practical matters (Hergenhahn, 1997). Applied psychologists did not advocate for an applied psychology instead of a pure psychology. These psychologists, along with their scientiﬁc contemporaries,viewedscienceasbeingﬁrstandapplications as being second (Hergenhahn, 1997). The pure psychologists disapproved of applying psychology, however. Benjamin (1997) noted, “The purists railed against such premature ven- tures and warned these purveyors of suspect psychological knowledge to stay home and perfect their science” (p. 102). One explanation for the tension between scientists and practitioners was the reward structure of the American scien- tiﬁc community during 1906–1944 (Sokal, 1995). James McKeenCattellusedastarsystem,inwhichasteriskswereat- tached to the names of individuals he identiﬁed as the preemi- nent American scientists of the day in his American Men of Science, ﬁrst published in 1906. Ten leading representatives, who were members of the National Academy of Science and contributors to Science, selected these individuals. This re- ward structure placed a high value on being a scientist.Asec- ond explanation was the questionable scientiﬁc integrity of applied research funded by corporations for legal and commercial gains. Results from these studies were often dis- credited(Benjamin,Rogers,&Rosenbaum,1991).Athirdex- planationforthetensionwastheincompatiblevaluesbetween scientists (pure psychologists), who pursue the advancement of knowledge, and practitioners (applied psychologists), who apply knowledge to solve problems (Hergenhahn, 1997).

During the early years, a prevalent distinction between science and practice within industrial psychology did not exist, as most industrial psychologists consulted part-time while working full-time in university positions and con- ducted research in ﬁeld settings for the purposes of solving problems. The dichotomy gradually emerged as the number of individuals employed in universities, research institutions, and applied positions grew. In the published version of her APA Division 14 (now SIOP) presidential address entitled “Our Expanding Responsibilities,” Marion Bills (1953) fore- saw the developing gap between scientists and practitioners. She argued that psychologists working in industry were not given sufﬁcient credit for their contributions to science. Bills stated,

Perhaps our [psychologists in private industry] real function is that of a liaison ofﬁcer between our experimental workers and management under which function our chief duty would be to keep them very well informed on both sides, and display the