data/clean/untitled__chunk0796.md, before:

## EXPERT OPINIONS ON THE NATURE OF INTELLIGENCE

Historically, one of the most important approaches to ﬁguring out what intelligence is has relied on the opinions of experts. Such opinions are sometimes referred to as implicit theories, todistinguishthemfromthemoreformalexplicittheoriesthat serve as the bases for scientiﬁc hypotheses and subsequent data collections. Implicit theories (which can be those of laypersonsaswellasofexperts)areimportanttothehistoryof a ﬁeld for at least three reasons (R. J. Sternberg, Conway, Ketron, & Bernstein, 1981). First, experts’ implicit theories are typically what give rise to their explicit theories. Second, much of the history of intelligence research and practice is much more closely based on implicit theories than it is on for- maltheories.Mostoftheintelligenceteststhathavebeenused, forexample,arebasedmoreontheopinionsoftheircreatorsas towhatintelligenceisthanonformaltheories.Third,people’s everyday judgments of each other’s intelligence always have been and continue to be much more strongly guided by their implicit theories of intelligence than by any explicit theories.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk0796.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4a806a1b0f4221847fb33b74f476aa2a7c06ab09
title: untitled
---
# Intelligence

the same way that present points of view will be viewed as skewed in the future. A dialectical form of examination will serve as the basis for the entire chapter. The basic idea is that important ideas, good or bad, eventually serve as the spring- board for new ideas that grow out of unions of past ideas that may once have seemed incompatible.

The emphasis in this chapter is on the history of the ﬁeld of intelligence, particularly with reference to theories of intelligence. Readers interested in contemporary theory and research are referred to the chapter “Contemporary Theories ofIntelligence”inVolume7ofthishandbook(R.J.Sternberg, 2002). Such theories and research are mentioned only in pass- ing in this chapter. Readers interested primarily in measure- ment issues might consult relevant chapters in R. J. Sternberg (1982, 1994, 2000).

Perhaps themostfundamentaldialectic in theﬁeld of intel- ligencearisesfromthequestionofhowweshouldconceiveof intelligence. Several different positions have been staked out (Sternberg, 1990a). Many of the differences in ideology that arise in accounts of the history of the ﬁeld of intelligence arise from differences in the model of intelligence to which an in- vestigator adheres. To understand the history of the ﬁeld of intelligence, one must understand the alternative epistemo- logicalmodelsthatcangiverisetotheconceptofintelligence. But before addressing these models, consider simply the question of how psychologists in the ﬁeld of intelligence have deﬁned the construct on which they base their models.
