---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 6f70cd20091cd7856aa368edbedf8fafc5d05a13
title: untitled
---
# Psychology’s First Laboratory

However, the published reports of experiments by Oswald Külpe (1862–1915), a former student of Wundt, failed to identify the observers in experiments that used introspection in his laboratory at the University of Würzburg. Külpe’s experiments were designed to explore the thought processes involved in making inferences and judgments. The Würz- burg method of introspection, “systematic introspection” (Danziger, 1980; 1990) or “systematic introspectionism” (Blumenthal, 1985b, p. 64), was a form of self-reﬂection that required thinking about a problem to solve and then retro- spectively recounting the thought processes that led to its solution. In these experiments, the experimenter would in- terrupt the observer’s introspective report with questions designed to probe the content of consciousness. This proce- dure, which shifted the power and authority in the experi- mental situation from the observer to the experimenter, represented a departure from the careful experimental control over introspection exercised in Wundt’s laboratory. Wundt vigorously opposed the Würzburg method as unreliable (Blumenthal, 1985a; Leahey, 1981), particularly as it was applied to those higher mental processes that Wundt be- lieved to be beyond the reach of introspection and, indeed, of any laboratory method. Others pointed out that the “demand characteristics” inherent in this interrogation procedure (Müller, 1911; cited in Kusch, 1995) were likely to bias an observer’s responses. The status of introspection as a labora- tory method would concern psychology well into the twenti- eth century.

Wundt argued that experimental self-observation could reveal the existence of mental processes such as apperception (an active attentional process that organized perceptions), volition (will or effort), and emotion, but he strongly believed that these higher mental processes could not be studied using the experimental method. The only methods appropri- ate for the study of these hidden, higher cognitive processes were naturalistic observation and history. Wundt’s physiolog- ical psychology was one of “outer phenomena,” sensation, perceptions, and movement, while his “Völkerpsychologie,” the study of language, religion, myth, and culture, was one of “inner phenomena” (Leahey, 1981). Wundt’s Völkerpsy- chologie encompasses 10 volumes.

Because so many American students studied at Leipzig (Benjamin, Durkin, Link, Vesta, & Acord, 1992), Wundt assumed a position of particular signiﬁcance in the accounts of the origins of the new psychology. Nevertheless, pioneers in the new discipline at other German universities attracted their share of students from the United States and from other countries. The development of psychology, even in its early stages, was not the work of a single individual. Much of the development of psychology consisted of attempting to study

5
