## and Soviet approaches to clinical neuropsychology (Luria & Majovski, 1977).

In recent years, fostered by the IUPsyS and the IAAP, the trend from Americanization to internationalization has be- come ever stronger. One example is the growth of European associations and international journals published in English (Lunt & Poortinga, 1996). Another example is the European Psychologist, which began publication in 1996 under the auspices of the European Federation of Professional Psychol- ogists Associations. Journals produced by the American Psychological Association have invited non-U.S. colleagues as associate editors and peer reviewers. The number of arti- cles by authors residing outside the United States has steadily increased (Fleishman, 1999). Psychology’s knowledge and practice base is expanding through ever growing electronic links with colleagues in developed and developing coun- tries (Mays, Rubin, Sabourin, & Walker, 1996; Pawlick & d’Ydewalle, 1996). Electronic communication “supplies the means for geographically distant but intellectually close col- laboration” (Fowler, 1996, p. 6).

Echoing Cattell (1930), Fowler (1996) noted on the 50th anniversary of the American Psychologist that “collaboration and contributions to the same bodies of literature by psychol- ogists who work in different countries are at times more difﬁcult than in other disciplines, some of which have long historiesofinternationalcollaboration”(p.5).Asthechiefex- ecutive ofﬁcer of theAPA, he pledged that “unifying the ﬁeld by forging among psychologists many long-lasting coopera- tiveeffortsthatspaninternationalboundariesisagoalwehave adopted and will continue to pursue vigorously” (p. 6).

Particularly noteworthy in the new millennium is the launching of a “publication” by the International Union of Psychological Science. As described by Rosenzweig et al. (2000), Psychology: IUPsyS Global Resource is congruent with electronic computer capabilities coming online through- out the world. Disseminated in CD-ROM format, it includes brief descriptions and histories of the state of psychology in 84 countries, contact information for national psychological societies, a directory of international psychological societies, an international directory with postal and electronic ad- dresses for scholarly institutions in 147 countries, a coded bibliography of published papers about psychology in each country, and abstracts of all papers presented at the quadren- nial International Congress of Psychology beginning with 1996 and to be continued into the future. Psychology, like music, is adapting new technologies to facilitate communica- tion of a universal message.