---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b574a07c270a37c8183da829ee3ab00bd520518f
title: untitled
---
# Physics and Visual Perception 91

though that size may be much larger that the size of the hands or ﬁngers that are doing the actual touching. It was reasoning like this that led to the emission theory of vision.

The emission theory suggests that light is actually emitted from the eye to make contact with objects. These light rays thus serve as the “ﬁngers of the eye.” Information returns along these same extended rays, in much the same way that tactile information ﬂows back through extended arms. This is all consistent with the observation that we cease seeing when we close our eyes, thus preventing emission of the light rays; that what we see depends on the direction that we are look- ing; and that we can perceive objects that are much larger than the aperture size of our pupil.

This emission theory of vision anticipates another trend in perceptual theorizing, namely, that things that can be repre- sented mathematically are more likely to believed as true, even though there is no evidence that the underlying mecha- nisms are valid. All that seems to be required is a predictive model.This was provided by an early believer in the emission theory, the great Greek mathematician Euclid (ca. 300 B.C.). All that Euclid needed to do was to appreciate that light travels in straight lines. Given this fact, and a knowledge of geometry, he was able to present a system of laws of optics that derive from simple principles and can predict the geom- etry of refraction and reﬂection of light. However, for Euclid, the scientiﬁc study of optics was not separable from the study of visual response. While considering the nature of vision, Euclid proposed the idea of the visual cone, which is a broad cone (or an angle when represented as a two-dimensional slice) with its apex at the eye. He also invented a way of rep- resenting the initial stages of the visual process that is still used in modern diagrams. Each light ray is drawn as a straight line that joins the object and the eye as it would if light were emitting like a long ﬁnger emerging from the pupil. This is shown in Figure 5.1. Notice that each object is deﬁned by its visual angle. Euclid would use a diagram like this to explain why the more distant of two identical objects would appear smaller. As the ﬁgure demonstrates, the arrow AB is farther away from the eye and thus appears smaller than the closer arrow CD because the visual angle AEB is smaller than visual angle CED.

We have advanced well beyond Euclid, and obviously we now know that light is reﬂected from every point of an object and then reforms into an image after entering the eye. Despite this knowledge, even today, visual diagrams are routinely drawn as if the geometrical lines of emitted light actually ex- isted. We do so, still ignoring the cautions of Bishop George Berkeley (1685–1753) that were given some 2,000 years after Euclid. Berkeley admonished “those Lines and Angles have no real Existence in Nature, being only Hypotheses
