# Guidance in Education and Psychology

The institutionalization of vocational guidance began in 1917 with the transfer of the Vocational Bureau to the Division of Education at Harvard. Here educators and psychologists would frame some of the earliest debates about the nature of guidance and counseling, debates that have echoed through- out the history of counseling psychology.

Some on the Harvard faculty, such as John Brewer, saw vocational guidance as an educational function; others, such as Hugo Münsterberg, saw it as a province of the new applied psychology. Brewer argued that guidance was a part of the ed- ucational experience, a process by which the student is an ac- tive agent in seeking out experiences that help determine the appropriate choice of an occupation (Brewer, 1932). Psychol- ogists such as Münsterberg (1910) viewed guidance as an ac- tivity well suited to the new applied psychology. Münsterberg, director of the psychological laboratory at Harvard and an early progenitor of applied psychology, was familiar with and supportive of Parsons’work but offered a warning:

We now realize that questions as to the mental capacities and functions and powers of an individual can no longer be trusted to impressionistic replies. If we are to have reliable answers, we must make use of the available resources of the psychological laboratory. These resources emancipate us from the illusions and emotions of the self-observer. The well-arranged experiment measures the mental states with the same exactness with which the chemical or physical examination of the physician studies the organism of the individual. (p. 401)

Münsterberg was joined by colleagues such as Harry Hollingworth and Leta Hollingworth, psychologists who had advocated for the scientiﬁc study of vocational guidance. Like Münsterberg, they were wary of pseudoscientiﬁc means of assessing individual traits. They were so concerned with the problem that in 1916, Harry Hollingworth published the book Vocational Psychology. Designed to debunk such character-reading techniques as physiognomy, it promoted the beneﬁts the new science of psychology could lend to the assessment of individual abilities. Leta Hollingworth, an early advocate for the psychological study of women and women’s issues, added a chapter on the vocational aptitudes of women. The purpose of the chapter she wrote was

to inquire whether there are any innate and essential sex differ- ences in tastes and abilities, which would afford a scientiﬁc basis for the apparently arbitrary and traditional assumption that the vocational future of all girls must naturally fall in the domestic sphere, and consequently presents no problem, while the future of boys is entirely problematical and may lie in any of a score of different callings, according to personal ﬁtness. (p. 223)

Reﬂective of much of her work on gender differences and mental abilities, she concluded that “so far as is at present known, women are as competent in mental capacity as men are, to undertake any and all human vocations” (p. 244).

The new applied psychology ﬁt well with the Progres- sive Era theme of social efﬁciency. The scientiﬁc study of mental life encouraged greater understanding of adaptation