# Venture Growth

In an even more complex trait-mediation study conducted in the laboratory, Lee, Sheldon, and Turban (2003) found that an ‘‘amotivated’’ orientation (i.e., low conﬁdence in one’s cap- abilities) is associated with goal-avoidance motivation. This, in turn, is associated with lower goal levels and, thereby, lower performance. In contrast, a control orientation, meaning ex- trinsic motivation, is associated with both avoidance and ap- proach goals. The latter are associated with higher goal levels and higher performance. Autonomy goals, meaning intrinsic motivation, led to mastery goals. Mastery goals, in turn, en- hanced mental focus; so did approach goals, which, in turn, enhanced performance. This study illustrates how motivation can be measured at different levels of abstraction, with the more speciﬁc levels mediating the more general ones.

Macro-Level Goals Goal-setting research has also been extended from the group level to the level of the organization as a whole. A study of companies and their suppliers in China found that the re- lationship between a high level of a shared vision among em- ployees and low levels of dysfunctional opportunism was partially mediated by the setting of cooperative goals. A shared vision strengthened cooperative goal setting by drawing the boundary lines of the group around the two organizations involved—namely, the company and its suppliers—thereby reducing the negative feelings that frequently occur in alliances due to perceptions of in- versus out-groups.

Baum and Locke (2004) used a longitudinal design to study the performance of small-venture entrepreneurs over a 6-year period.Growthgoals,alongwithself-efﬁcacy andorganizational vision, were found to signiﬁcantly predict future growth. These three motivators completely mediated the effects on growth of two personality traits, passion for the work and tenacity (see Fig. 1). The role of goals and self-efﬁcacy as mediators of other motivators was also found in previous studies in which the individual was the level of analysis (Locke & Latham, 2002).

Fig. 1. Therelationshipoftraits(passionandtenacity),vision,goals,and self-efﬁcacy to the sales and employment growth of small ventures. Adapted from ‘‘The Relationship of Entrepreneurial Traits, Skill, and MotivationtoSubsequentVentureGrowth,’’byJ.R.Baum&E.A.Locke, 2004, Journal of Applied Psychology, 89, p. 592. Copyright 2004, Amer- ican Psychological Association. Adapted with permission.

Typically, a goal, once accepted and understood, remains in the periphery of consciousness as a reference point for guiding and giving meaning to subsequent mental and physical actions.

Intriguing ﬁndings in social psychology by Bargh and Char- trand and others (e.g., see Bargh & Williams, 2006) suggest that even goals that are subconsciously primed (and participants report no awareness of the primed motive) affect performance. Consequently, Stajkovic, Locke, and Blair (in press) compared the effects of primed, subconscious, achievement goals with explicitlyassigned,conscious,performancegoalsinalaboratory setting. Both priming and conscious goals had independent effects on task performance, although the conscious goal had a larger effect size. Moreover, the two types of goals had an interaction effect. Primed subjects with hard and ‘‘do your best’’ goals had signiﬁcantly higher performance than did unprimed subjects withthe same goals. Priming, however,did notenhance the effects of easy goals. In a follow-up study, Stajkovic and Locke used a 2 (cid:1) 2 design in a proofreading task in which subconsciously primed speed goals and subconsciously as- signed accuracy goals were crossed with explicitly assigned speedandaccuracygoals.Thisenabledustoseewhathappened when subconscious goals were put in conﬂict with conscious goals. Using speed as the dependent variable, the two types of goalsshowedsigniﬁcantmaineffects,buttheypartlyneutralized one another when they were in conﬂict. However, the effect of conscious speed goals was markedly greater than that of sub- consciously primed speed goals. Subconscious priming had no effect at all on accuracy, but conscious goals had a strong effect.