---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: bab488590ea0acee3832fe91bbb683e9436fc8a8
title: untitled
---
# 168 Emotion

conﬂict. These conﬂicts constitute the emotions; without them there is no emotion; with them there is. And just as Paulhan and Ogden ignored Herbart, so did Dewey and AngierignoreHerbartandPaulhan.Yet,Ishouldnotquitesay “ignore.” Most of the actors in this “now you see them, now you don’t” game had apparently glanced at the work of their predecessors. Maybe they had no more than browsed through it.

The cumulative nature of science is true for its failures as well as for its successes. There was no reason for Paulhan to have read or paid much attention to Herbart, or for Dewey or Angier to have read Paulhan. After all, why should they pay attention to a forgotten psychologist when nobody else did? It may be that conﬂict theories appeared at inappropriate times, that is, when other emotion theories were more prominent and popular—for example, Dewey’s proposal clashed with the height of James’s popularity. In any case, it is the peculiar history of the conﬂict theories that they tend to be rediscov- ered at regular intervals.

In 1941, W. Hunt suggested that classical theories gener- ally accepted a working deﬁnition of emotion that involved some emergency situation of biological importance during which “current behavior is suspended” and responses appear that are directed toward a resolution of the emergency (W. Hunt, 1941). These “classical” theories “concern them- selves with speciﬁc mechanisms whereby current behavior is interrupted and emotional responses are substituted” (p. 268). Hunt saw little novelty in formulations that maintained that emotion followed when an important activity of the organism is interrupted. Quite right; over nearly 200 years, that same old “theme” has been refurbished time and time again. I will continue the story of the conﬂict theories without pausing for twoidiosyncraticexamples,behaviorismandpsychoanalysis, which—while conﬂict theories—are off the path of the devel- oping story. I shall return to them at the end of this section. The noncumulative story of conﬂict theories stalled for a while about 1930, and nothing much had happened by 1941, when W. Hunt barely suppressed a yawn at the reemergence of another conﬂict theory. But within the next decade, another one appeared, and this one with much more of a splash. It was put forward by Donald 0. Hebb (1946, 1949), who came to his conﬂict theory following the observations of rather startling emotionalbehavior.Hebbrestrictedhisdiscussionofemotion to what he called “violent and unpleasant emotions” and to “the transient irritabilities and anxieties of ordinary persons as well as to neurotic or psychotic disorder” (1949, p. 235). Hespeciﬁcallydidnotdealwithsubtleemotionalexperiences nor with pleasurable emotional experiences.

Hebb’s observations concerned rage and fear in chim- panzees. He noted that animals would have a paroxysm of

terror at being shown another animal’s head detached from the body, that this terror was a function of increasing age, and also that various other unusual stimuli, such as other isolated parts of the body, produced excitation. Such excitation was apparently not tied to a particular emotion; instead, it would be followed sometimes by avoidance, sometimes by aggres- sion, and sometimes even by friendliness. Hebb assumed that the innate disruptive response that characterizes the emo- tional disturbance is the result of an interference with a phase sequence—a central neural structure that is built up as a re- sult of previous experience and learning. Hebb’s insistence that phase sequences ﬁrst must be established before they can be interfered with, and that the particular emotional distur- bance follows such interference and the disruptive response, identiﬁes his theory with the conﬂict tradition. Hebb’s theory does not postulate any speciﬁc physiological pattern for any of these emotional disturbances such as anger, fear, grief, and so forth, nor does he put any great emphasis on the physio- logical consequences of disruption.

The next step was taken by Leonard Meyer (1956), who, in contrast to many other such theorists, had read and under- stood the literature. He properly credited his predecessors and signiﬁcantly advanced theoretical thinking. More impor- tant, he showed the application of conﬂict theory not in the usual areas of fear or anxiety or ﬂight but in respect to the emotional phenomena associated with musical appreciation. None of that helped a bit. It may well be that because he worked in an area not usually explored by psychologists, his work had no inﬂuence on any psychological developments. Meyer started by saying that emotion is “aroused when a tendency to respond is arrested or inhibited.” He gave John Dewey credit for fathering the conﬂict theory of emotion and recognized that it applies even to the behaviorist formula- tions that stress the disruptive consequences of emotion. Meyer noted that Paulhan’s “brilliant work” predates Dewey’s, and he credited Paulhan with stating that emotion is aroused not only by opposed tendencies but also when “for some reason, whether physical or mental [a tendency], can- not reach completion.” So much for Meyer’s awareness of historical antecedents. Even more impressive is his antici- pation of the next 20 years of development in emotion theory. For example, he cited the conclusion that there is no evidence that each affect has its own peculiar physiological composition. He concluded that physiological reactions are “essentially undifferentiated, and become characteristic only in certain stimulus situations. . . . Affective experience is dif- ferentiated because it involves awareness and cognition of the stimulus situation which itself is necessarily differenti- ated.” In other words: An undifferentiated organic reaction becomes differentiated into a speciﬁc emotional experience

as a result of certain cognitions. As an example, Meyer re- minded his readers that the sensation of falling through space might be highly unpleasant, but that a similar experience, in the course of a parachute jump in an amusement park, may become very pleasurable.

In short, Meyer anticipated the development of the cogni- tive and physiological interactions that were to become the mainstays of explanations of emotions in the 1960s and 1970s (e.g., Schachter). Most of Meyer’s book is concerned with the perception of emotional states during the analysis and the appreciation of music. His major concern is to show that felt emotion occurs when an expectation is activated and then temporarily inhibited or permanently blocked.

The last variant of the “conﬂict” theme to be considered has all the stigmata of its predecessors: The emotional con- sequences of competition or conﬂict are newly discovered, previous cognate theories are not acknowledged, and well- trodden ground is covered once again. The theorist is Man- dler and the year was 1964. The theory is one of conﬂicting actions, blocked tendencies, and erroneous expectations. But there is no mention of Dewey, of Paulhan, and certainly not of Meyer. The basic proposition (Mandler, 1964) was that the interruption of an integrated or organized response sequence produces a state of arousal, which will be followed by emo- tional behavior or experience. This theme was expanded in 1975 to include the interruption of cognitive events and plans. The antecedents of the approach appeared in a paper by Kessen and Mandler (1961), and the experimental litera- ture invoked there is not from the area of emotion; rather, it is from the motivational work of Kurt Lewin (1935), who had extensively investigated the effect of interrupted and uncom- pleted action on tension systems.

than Meyer’s—in Mandler, the claim is that interruption is a sufﬁ- cient and possibly necessary condition for the occurrence of autonomic nervous system arousal, that such interruption sets the stage for many of the changes that occur in cognitive and action systems, and ﬁnally, that interruption has important adaptive properties in that it signals important changes in the environment. Positive and negative emotions are seen as following interruption, and, in fact, the same interruptive event may produce different emotional states or conse- quences depending on the surrounding situational and in- trapsychic cognitive context. Some empirical extensions were present in Mandler and Watson and, for example, conﬁrmed that an appetitive situation can produce extreme emotional behavior in lower animals when they are put into a situation where no appropriate behaviors are available to them (Mandler & Watson, 1966). Other extensions were further elaborations of the Schachter dissociation of arousal
