---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b7620eb0da9021c27b3038b7a258974fa0a4b261
title: untitled
---
# Socioeconomic Forces

Socioeconomic forces refer to indicators of the economy (e.g., income, the gross national product, unemployment), societal views (e.g., with regard to workers, organizations, environment, health) and ideologies (e.g., social Darwinism and eugenics), and population demographics. Katzell and Austin (1992), for example, observed that I-O topics seem to be correlated with cycles of social or political concerns (e.g., labor relations with labor–management conﬂicts, job analysis with fair employment issues).

In the late nineteenth century, American society experi- enced rapid changes and developments because of industrial- ization, immigration, a high birth rate, education reform, and urban growth. A progressive drive for reform prevailed (Minton, 1988), and Americans were ready for the practical and useful. Multiple changes created problems for humanity (Napoli, 1981), and society looked toward science for practi- cal solutions. In addition to these societal demands, institu- tional pressures and the desire to improve their institutional status to keep their discipline alive forced psychologists to popularize their science and demonstrate the value of psy- chology in solving problems and helping society (Burnham, 1987; Goodwin, 1999). Taking psychology outside academic laboratories and increasing psychological research on practi- cal applications in education, medicine, criminology, busi- ness, and industry were expressions of psychologists’intense desire for social recognition and support (Camﬁeld, 1973). One proponentof appliedresearch stated thatprogress toward the development of an applied psychology offered “the hope of seeing greater socio-economic values placed upon the sci- ence in American community life” (cited in Camﬁeld, 1973, p. 75). The intellectual, social, cultural, and economic milieu engendered the formation of an applied psychology.

As psychology’s popularity increased, society and the business community became skeptical and disenchanted with the discipline because individuals not trained in psychology began practicing to gain ﬁnancial rewards. Psychologists felt compelled to combat society’s images of psychology as com- mon sense or as occultism and superstition (Burnham, 1987) and society’s stereotype of the psychologist as an “absent-minded professor, preoccupied with abstruse man- ners” (Burnham, 1987, p. 92). One response was to use ex- perimentation to invalidate the claims of pseudoscientists (Van De Water, 1997). Methodological developments in- cluded measurement methods (mental tests, observations, case studies) and statistics for measuring and analyzing indi- vidual differences (regression, simple correlation, partial correlation) (Cowles, 1989). Furthermore, Gillespie (1988) noted that the decision to undertake social scientiﬁc research in the workplace during the 1920s was a political process, and “social and behavioral scientists believed that experi- mentation would guarantee objectivity of their ﬁndings and recommendations, and ensure their professional standing on an intellectual and moral plane above that of capitalists and workers” (p. 133).

Duringthe1920s,euphoriaandprosperityswepttheUnited States. Despite a short recession in 1921–1922, the gross na- tional product rose 39% between 1919 and 1929 (Cashman, 1989). The growth of employment associated with the rise in the gross national product provided opportunities for indus- trial psychologists as full-time employees or consultants in industry.Companieswereinterestedinpsychologicalapplica- tions used during the war (i.e., selection and placement), and theprimaryconcernwasﬁndingtherightemployeeforthejob. Articlesandbooksonvariousaspectsofpersonnelpsychology described developments and issues (e.g., Link, 1919; Pond, 1927; Scott & Hayes, 1921).

Viteles (1932) noted a shift in the social philosophy of workersduringtheearlypartofthetwentiethcentury.Apolicy of noninterference shifted to a policy that emphasized the em- ployee’s welfare. This policy of employee’s welfare was rein- forced during the economic depression, when 25% of the workforce was unemployed (Manchester, 1973–1974). The depression’s adverse effects on individuals led to heightened sensitivity to and concern for the human condition and the hu- manization of work. Organizations and the U.S. government felt responsible for employee welfare; thus, social issues such as unemployment and adjustment of workers became preva- lent. The greatest need was to ﬁnd jobs for people to ﬁll, so there was less need for and interest in personnel selection and training. More than 16% of the companies that had used personnel tests dropped them during the Great De- pression(Katzell&Austin,1992).Noneofthestudiescitedin an extensive review of the psychological literature on training

inindustrywerepublishedduringthe1930s(Katzell&Austin, 1992; McGehee&Thayer, 1961).Thesocial aspects of indus- trial psychology began to emerge as industrial psychologists developed an interest in improving an individual’s well-being at work. According to Viteles (1932), “They [psychologists] havedeﬁnitelyacceptedtheviewpointthatindustrialpractices are to be judged not only by the criterion of economic return, but in terms of their effects on human beings” (p. 25).

The Minnesota Employment Stabilization Research Insti- tute (MESRI) was established in 1931 to study the psycholog- ical and economics effects of unemployment (e.g., Paterson, 1932).The idea that individual differences could be shown by special aptitude tests, not just intelligence tests, was formu- lated;thus,aptitudetests(e.g.,theMinnesotaClericalTestand theMinnesotaPaperFormBoard)weredesigned.AMinnesota perspective was created, which eventually developed into a theoryofworkadjustment(Dawis&Lofquist,1984).

The U.S. Employment Service (USES), founded in 1917, was renewed with the Wagner-Peyser Act of 1933 (Lowenberg & Conrad, 1998). Along with the Minnesota In- stitute, this program tried to eliminate the crevasses between the unemployed and the few available jobs. The USES is known for developing the General Aptitude Test Battery (GATB) and completing the ﬁrst large-scale systematic analysis of jobs, the Dictionary of Occupational Titles, pub- lished in 1939. This project moved I-O psychologists further toward realizing the importance of matching individual abil- ity proﬁles with different job requirements (Lowenberg & Conrad, 1998). Various methods were used to achieve this match, such as selection and placement, vocational guidance, and a combination of processes called differential job place- ment (Dunnette, 1966).

A few early research studies on attitudes and morale were conducted during this time (e.g., Hoppock, 1935), and the measurement of attitudes was improved by the scaling techniques of Thurstone (1927) and Likert (1932). Attitude surveys andstructuredinterviews were populartoolsfor man- agement consulting (Houser, 1938). Kurt Lewin, a researcher attheUniversityofIowaChildWelfareResearchStationfrom 1935 to 1944, commenced research on various psychological aspects of work such as leadership, productivity, satisfaction, group dynamics, employee participation, and resistance to change (Katzell &Austin, 1992).

During the depression, President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s reform programs provided a favorable climate for organized labor; thus, corporate America had to respond to new labor laws and the growing muscle of unions. According to Gillespie (1988),

The calm of the 1920s and early 1930s had been shattered by the militancy of new industrial unions of mass-production workers
