# Behaviorism and Behavior Therapy

Neopavlovian behaviorism, in the forms developed by Hull at Yale and Eysenck in the United Kingdom, devoted much effort to the understanding of the processes associated with disordered behavior. The logic underlying the application of behavioral principles to the task of changing behavior were relatively straightforward. Maladaptive behavior was ac- quired (i.e., learned) and maintained in the same way that any other behavior is learned, namely by the circumstances sur- rounding when it ﬁrst occurred and its consequences. The maladaptive behavior was either followed by some desired consequence (a reward), or served to avert some undesirable

consequence (a punishment). This general principle war- ranted the deduction that treatment should consist of extin- guishing the maladaptive behavior by removing its rewards while, at the same time, giving rewards to the patient when- ever normal behavior was displayed. When the behavior was primarily avoidant, the principle was that repeated exposure to the feared stimulus without any aversive consequences would ultimately lead to extinction of fear and the emergence of more adaptive behavior.

The effectiveness of these techniques had been demon- strated in the animal laboratory, but their application to ac- tual patients was another matter. Psychoanalytic doctrine had asserted that the overt behavior was a “symptom” of an underlying intrapsychic conﬂict, and that removing the symptom without solving the conﬂict could not be curative. Thus, it was claimed, the symptom might disappear when treated by behavioral methods, but that a new symptom would emerge to take its place. This hypothesized phenome- non was called “symptom substitution.” From the behavioral perspective, the so-called symptom was the problem, not just an indicator of an invisible problem. Although later studies were to show that the psychoanalytic claim was un- founded, the hegemony of psychoanalysis in psychiatric practice effectively prevented any extensive use of behav- ioral methods with patients. Although Salter (1949) pub- lished his classic Conditioned Reﬂex Therapy in 1949, not until the deﬁciencies of psychoanalytic treatment had been demonstrated did the way open for applying behavioral treatment. This development did not occur until after mid- century, and occurred at ﬁrst more widely in the treatment of children’s behavior problems in the classroom and the home, where psychiatric inﬂuences were usually minimal.