---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: eb7cee58357b1a4790882119233b480c2d4f3ccb
title: untitled
---
# Individual Lives and Individual Differences: The Multidisciplinary Study of Personality (1900–1930) 181

still in its infancy (see the chapter by Benjamin, DeLeon, & Freedheim in this volume; Napoli, 1981).

“Personality” appeared early as a topic of psychiatry and abnormal psychology in publications such as the Journal of Abnormal Psychology, founded in 1906 by Morton Prince, “eminent Boston physician and lecturer at Tufts College Medical School” (G. W. Allport, 1938, p. 3). For several years, the editorial board of the journal consisted entirely of persons with medical training; only Hugo Münsterberg and Boris Sidis were also trained in psychology (Shermer, 1985). Prince was a leading ﬁgure in the “Boston school” of psy- chopathology and psychotherapy (Hale, 1971), a group com- posed primarily of physicians, some of whom were also trained in experimental psychology (Taylor, 2000). The Boston psychopathologists were among the ﬁrst profession- als to be inﬂuenced by psychoanalysis (Fancher, 2000; Hale, 1971); indeed, the ﬁrst issue of the Journal of Abnormal Psy- chology contained an article on psychoanalysis (Putnam, 1906). Between 1910 and 1925 the journal served as the ofﬁ- cial organ of the American Psychopathological Association (G. W. Allport, 1938), which consisted of physicians and psy- chologists with an interest in psychotherapy (Hale, 1971). Between 1906 and 1920, the Journal of Abnormal Psy- chology featured more articles on “personality” than any other psychological journal. (This statement is based on a count of items in the historic PsycINFO database featuring the term “personality” in titles or abstracts.) In 1921, the jour- nal was expanded to include a focus on social psychology and was renamed The Journal of Abnormal Psychology and Social Psychology; the editorial announcing this change pointed to “personality” as a central topic in both ﬁelds (Editors, 1921). Although Prince remained the nominal edi- tor, he soon transferred most of the editorial responsibility for the journal to his new “Coöperating Editor,” social psycholo- gist Floyd Allport. In 1925, the journal was renamed The Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology (G. W. Allport, 1938); in 1960, it became Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology. In 1965, the journal split into the Journal of Ab- normal Psychology and the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology.

Articles on personality in early issues of the Journal of Abnormal Psychology bore such titles as “My Life as a Disso- ciated Personality” (Anonymous, 1908) and “A Case of Dis- ordered Personality” (Dewey, 1907), indicating their reliance on personal accounts and case studies. Between 1906 and 1916, nearly all of the empirical studies published in the jour- nalpresenteddataonindividualsratherthangroups.Although the proportion of group studies began to increase during the second decade of publication, the proportion of individual studies remained higher until 1925, averaging 75% during

Prince’s last four years as active editor and 65% during Floyd Allport’s term as cooperating editor (see Shermer, 1985; we discuss in a later section a change in publication trends begin- ning in 1925). This emphasis on case studies reﬂected the investigative practices of medical and psychiatric researchers and psychoanalysts.Around the turn of the twentieth century, the case study, familiar to medical practitioners since the days of Hippocrates, had been introduced as a pedagogical tool by Walter B. Cannon (1900; see Forrester, 1996; Taylor, 1996) and by Richard C. Cabot (see Forrester, 1996; Lubove, 1965), borrowing from law and from social casework, respectively. Case studies were of course central in psychoanalysis; a clear example is Freud’s (1910/1957a) discussion of the case of “Anna O.” in his ﬁrst lecture in the United States in 1909. Case studies appeared regularly in psychiatric and psychoan- alytic journals such as the American Journal of Psychiatry and the Psychoanalytic Review throughout the 1920s.
