---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b9acd6706119574d3cfc9c70b0cc64b1cf92d952
title: untitled
---
## Accreditation and Credentialing Organizations

In the United States, the growth of psychology as a mental health profession after World War II created the need for or- ganizations or structures to regulate and credential psycholo- gists engaged in the practice of professional psychology. The licensing of psychologists became a state matter and will not be discussed here.

With the rise of professional psychology after the Second World War, a number of organizations developed to facilitate graduate training in professional psychology and to certify excellence of professional skills. These included the APA, the American Board of Professional Psychology (ABPP), the As- sociation of Psychology Postdoctoral and Internship Centers (APPIC), the National Register of Health Service Providers in Psychology (NR), the Association of State and Provincial Psychology Boards (ASPPB), and the Veterans Administra- tion (VA) (Laughlin & Worley, 1991).

The APA accepted the mandate proposed by the VA and the United States Public Health Service (USPHS) immedi- ately after the World War II to develop an accreditation process to identify those universities that were qualiﬁed to train clinical psychologists (Capshew, 1999, Pickren & Dewsbury, 2002; Sheridan, Matarrazo, & Nelson, 1995). Twenty-two universities formed the ﬁrst cohort of accredited graduate clinical training programs in 1947. That number ex- ceeded 700 by the year 2000. The scientist-practitioner train- ing model adopted by APA and accepted by the VA and USPHS was based on the work of David Shakow, which was

formalized at the Boulder Conference in 1949 (Raimy, 1950). The issue of accreditation philosophy and guidelines was re- visited over the years at a number of conferences. The 1954 Thayer Conference on School Psychology addressed the de- sirability of accrediting school psychologist training pro- grams. The 1973 Vail Conference on Levels and Patterns of Professional Training laid the groundwork for the accredita- tion of schools of professional psychology offering the doctor of psychology degree. By the end of the century, APA accreditation was the standard for all doctoral-level training in the practice of psychology, including the predoctoral internship.

Problems with the predoctoral internship led to the estab- lishment of the Association of Psychology Internship Centers in 1968 (Fox, 1990). The name was later changed to the As- sociation of Psychology Postdoctoral and Internship Centers (APPIC). The major issue that the APPIC addressed initially was matching intern candidates with appropriate training sites. The APPIC established a uniform notiﬁcation date, the second Monday in February. In the early 1970s, the APPIC began publishing its internship directory. The directory proved to be one of the most valuable contributions made by the association. APPIC is not an accrediting agency. Rather, it works to facilitate high-quality pre- and postdoctoral intern- ship training.

The American Board of Professional Psychology (ABPP) was established in 1947 as the American Board of Examiners in Professional Psychology. The APA realized that it could not serve as the credentialing body for individual psycholo- gists. Yet, in order to certify proﬁciency in psychological practice and to protect the public from charlatans, an inde- pendent credentialing body was needed. The ABPP was funded through the 1950s by the APAand through the collec- tion of examination fees.

The ABPP established the diplomate status as the level of certiﬁed proﬁciency in a psychological specialty and left the establishment and recognition of basic competence to the universities and eventually to the state licensing boards. Thus, the diplomate in professional psychology was established as a higher level of professional excellence. Three original specialties were recognized: clinical, personnel- industrial (later industrial-organizational), and personnel- educational (later counseling). School psychology was added in 1968. The ABPP acknowledged that there were many psychologists who had developed professional compe- tence prior to its establishment. Over 1,000 of these profes- sional psychologists, most of them clinicians and about half of them women, were grandparented in as the ﬁrst to receive diplomate status (see the 1949 APA Directory for a complete listing).

The board passed through a rather fallow period during the 1960s and 1970s as the number of applicants declined. At one point, the ABPP board of trustees even raised the possi- bility of disbanding the board (Bent, Packard, & Goldberg, 1999). The examination procedures were changed; the writ- ten exam was dropped and the oral component was changed to allow for more in vivo assessment. Various measures to in- crease the number of applicants and to reestablish close rela- tionships with the APA were discussed. In 1971, the ABPP board established a formal liaison with the APA Board of ProfessionalAffairs.Also in hopes of reaching more psychol- ogists, in 1972 the board established six regional boards to re- cruit applicants and conduct the diplomate examinations. While the examination burden on the board of trustees was lessened by the regional boards, there was no hoped-for in- crease in the number of applicants, and the regional boards were disbanded in the 1990s.

At the instigation of the health insurance industry, the APA agreed to work toward establishing a registry of quali- ﬁed psychologists who would be eligible for reimbursement for the provision of mental health services. At the request of the APA, the ABPP agreed to develop the registry in 1974. The ABPP board of trustees established the Council for the National Register of Health Service Providers (NR) and loaned the new organization money to help it get started. The NR was successful from its beginning in attracting psycholo- gists to membership. The ABPP and the NR soon fell into serious disagreement over their legal relationship, with the ABPP under the impression that the NR was a subsidiary or- ganization. The ABPP apparently hoped that the NR would help rescue it from its ﬁnancial troubles and that it would prove to be an enduring source of applicants for diplomate status. However, the leaders of the NR saw the relationship differently and in 1975 repaid the ABPP loan and declared that the NR was an independent organization. There ensued a period of intense acrimony between the leaders of the two organizations that did not diminish for several years.

The ABPP recognized several more specialties in the 1980s and 1990s. By the year 2000, in addition to the four established specialties (clinical, counseling, school, and industrial-organizational), the ABPPhad made diplomate sta- tus available for the specialties of clinical neuropsychology, forensic psychology, family psychology, health psychology, behavioral psychology, psychoanalysis, rehabilitation psy- chology, and group psychology. Each of these specialties had its own board of examiners and was independently incorpo- rated; thus, the ABPPserved the function of general oversight of psychological specialties (Bent et al., 1999). In order to avoid conﬂict with the Commission for the Recognition of Specialties and Proﬁciencies in Professional Psychology
