# “Social Psychology in Transition”

Reconnecting the Dots between the Personal and the Political

In addition to these critical histories of central social psycho- logical concepts were those entered by women, feminist, and black psychologists who provided detailed appreciations and evidence on the social, cultural, historical, and political con- tingencies of social psychology’s production of knowledge on the one hand, and of social psychological life on the other. Where many of these works dovetailed was on the fallacy of attributing to nature what was instead, in their view, thoroughly social. Psychologist Georgene H. Seward’s 1946 book Sex and the Social Order, for example, revealed the historical contingencies of distinct sex-typed roles for women and men by showing how these distinctions often dissolved in times of economic or political turmoil. Just years later, philosopher Simone de Beauvoir (1952) pub- lished The Second Sex, whose central tenet, “woman is made, not born,” struck a chord with Seward’s argument as well as those who followed in subsequent decades. Betty Friedan’s (1963) The Feminine Mystique rendered the “woman question” anew through its language of humanistic psychology identifying sex-role typing as stunting women’s growth while forgoing a language of rights in favor of post- war cultural discourse that neither wholly eschewed domes- ticity nor wholly endorsed a single-minded pursuit of careers for women (see Meyerowtiz, 1993). Dorothy Dinnerstein, a student of Solomon Asch, published the feminist classic The Mermaid and the Minotaur in 1976, a book she had been working on since the late 1950s and that stemmed from her thinking through the “pull between individuality and the so- cial milieu.” The nature of her questions and concerns car- ried clear cold war preoccupations as well as feminist ones, inﬂuenced by de Beauvoir and Norman Brown, in her at- tempts to “resolve the contradictions between the Freudian and the Gestalt vision of societal processes” (p. xii) and those of gender arrangements. Kenneth B. Clark’s (1966a, 1966b) research on psychological hurt and social-economic- political oppression of blacks, like his writing on civil rights, and the dilemma of power and the “ethical confusion of man” brought together the psychological and political. By the late 1960s the black psychology movement voiced con- cern over the discipline’s ethnocentrism and internal racism (Richards, 1997).

In her social psychology textbook, Carolyn Wood Sherif (1976) acknowledged both movements, asking if there could indeed be a valid social psychology that neglected so- cial movements, for social movements and social change surely transform social psychological phenomena. By now, Naomi Weisstein, as Sherif (1979/1987) reﬂected in her chapter on bias in psychology, had “almost a decade ricocheted down the ago . . . ﬁred a feminist shot halls between psychology’s laboratories and clinics, hitting its target dead center” (p. 58). Weisstein (1971) showed that psychology’s understanding of woman’s nature was based more in myth than in fact—and patriarchal myth at that. She argued further that without attention to the social context and knowledge of social conditions, psychology would have little to offer on the woman question. For, if anything, decades of research on experimental and experi- menter bias had repeatedly demonstrated that instead of offering an unfettered view of the nature of womanhood, laboratory experiments had themselves been revealed as sites of social psychological processes and phenomena in-the-making.