---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4a7d94e6fb27d7e2eea57439ea69c82ffed80a7f
title: untitled
---
## Past as Prologue for the Twenty-First Century 477

however, that the activities of teaching can and should be dis- tinguished from research, in order to give teaching the respect itdeserves”(p. 362).Likethecomplexresponsesnecessaryto meet the needs of changing students, changing demands on faculty commitments will be debated into this century as well. Teaching methods throughout the century included the lec- ture, seminar or small-group discussion section, laboratory, ﬁeldwork and practica, and independent or supervised re- search projects. Technological advances modestly inﬂuenced each of these methods—better microphones, better audio- visual systems, better textbooks and auxiliary materials, and better observation and data-collection equipment. Then, in the last 20 years of the twentieth century, information tech- nology revolutionized how we conceptualize, deliver, and evaluate teaching and learning inAmerican higher education. Although we characterized the 1904 Wisconsin Idea of ex- tended education as an early example of “distance learning,” the dairy farmers of the Midwest who gathered with faculty members from their state’s land-grant universities’ colleges of agriculture probably did not envision twenty-ﬁrst-century models of “asynchronous learning” accomplished on laptop computers in their living rooms. Despite such advances, how- ever, we are conﬁdent in returning to a timeless formula: All teaching is mediated learning. Regardless of the nature of what is to be learned and how, a teacher ﬁrst must listen to a student, and then together they must construct the most effec- tive mediation so that the student learns how to learn and to become self-motivated and self-evaluating in that effort. Calkins (1910) had it right: “Teach psychology primarily as you would if it were an end in itself” (p. 53).

In the latter part of the nineteenth century, the new science of psychology emerged from its philosophical roots and began to develop a disciplinary identity. Curriculum devel- opment was the means by which this identity was repeatedly communicated and modiﬁed. As we have tried to demon- strate in our historical review of American higher education in general, and of psychology in particular, a driving force in- side and outside the academy was how best to deﬁne the lib- eral arts. Although the trivium and the quadrivium no longer deﬁne the essence of a university education, in what ways do the goals of that medieval curriculum differ from those proposed for a liberal arts psychology curriculum by Brewer et al. (1993), Halpern et al. (1993), or McGovern et al. (1991)? There were two special issues of the journal Teach- ing of Psychology in the 1990s; one was devoted to the teach- ing of writing across the curriculum (Nodine, 1990) and the other to teaching critical thinking across the curriculum (Halpern & Nummedal, 1995). We believe that higher educa- tion’s and psychology’s responses to deﬁning the liberal arts not only will shape the curriculum but should guide all of our
