## THE PSYCHOPHYSICISTS AND THE CORRESPONDENCE PROBLEM

The ultimate battle over the conceptualization of perception would be fought over the correspondence problem. The issue has to do with the perceptual act, and the simple question is, “How well does the perceived stimulus in consciousness cor- respond or represent the external physical stimulus?” By the mid-1800s, the recognition that sensory systems were not passively registering an accurate picture of the physical world was becoming an accepted fact. The most common sit- uations in which this became obvious were those that taxed the sensitivity of an observer. In these instances, stimuli might not be detected and intensity differences that might allow one to discriminate between stimuli might go unno- ticed. These early studies were clearly testing the limitations of the receptivity of sensory organs and hence were consis- tent with both the physical and physiological view of the senses as mere stimulus detectors. However, as the data on just how sensitive sensory systems were began to be amassed, problems immediately arose.

Ernst Heinrich Weber (1795–1878) at the University of Leipzig did research on touch sensitivity. He noticed that the ability to discriminate between one versus two simultaneous touches and the ability to discriminate among different weights was not a simple matter of stimulus differences. As an example, take three coins (quarters work well) and put two in one envelope and one in the other. Now compare the weight of these two envelopes and you should have no difﬁ- culty discriminating which has two coins, meaning that the stimulus difference of the weight of one quarter is discrim- inable. Next take these two envelopes and put one in each of your shoes. When you now compare the weight of the shoes you should ﬁnd it difﬁcult, and most likely impossible, to tell which of them is one coin weight heavier, despite the fact that previously there was no difﬁculty making a discrimination based on the same weight difference. Physical measuring de- vices do not have this limitation. If you have a scale that can tell the difference between a 10-gram and 20-gram weight, it should have no difﬁculty telling the difference between a 110-gram and 120-gram weight, since it clearly can discrim- inate differences of 10 grams. Such cannot be said for sen- sory systems.

These observations would be turned into a system of mea- suring the correspondence between the perceived and the