## EUROPEAN INFLUENCES IN THE EIGHTEENTH AND NINETEENTH CENTURIES

In the late eighteenth and the nineteenth centuries, there were strong European inﬂuences on the early development path of educational psychology as a discipline (Grinder, 1989; Hilgard, 1996). Hilgard (1996) identiﬁed four Europeans who he felt inﬂuenced both conceptions and practices in in- struction, teaching, and learning: Rousseau (1712–1788) from France, Pestalozzi (1746–1827) from Switzerland, and Herbart (1776–1841) and Froebel (1782–1852), both from Germany. Rousseau’s book Émile (1762/1979) emphasized that children discover things for themselves and described some of the instructional implications of this fundamental assumption. Pestalozzi (1820/1977), a Swiss lawyer by train- ing, developed a model school that incorporated many of the ideas that are current today in educational psychology. For example, he stressed that students must be active learners,

that education involved personal growth in addition to sim- ple knowledge acquisition, that psychology could be used as a guide for developing and implementing instructional methods, and that schools should be warm, nurturing environments.

While Rousseau and Pestalozzi made important contribu- tions to our thinking about students, schools, subject matter, and instruction, their ideas were primarily based on their moral and ethical views and their experience. It remained for Johann Friedrich Herbart of Germany to call for a more “scientiﬁc” approach to studying educational conceptions and practices.

In 1824, Johann Herbart published Psychology as Science, regarded as one of the ﬁrst treatises suggesting that educa- tional conceptions and educational practices could be studied scientiﬁcally and that the instructional process itself was different from the subject matter being taught. Herbart was the ﬁrst to provide a psychological rather than philosophical or moral substratum for his ideas and applications. Like Vives, Herbart believed that educational programs should be developed based on the interests, aptitudes, and abilities of students. Herbart’s followers, the Herbartians, developed a system of teaching that followed a “logical progression” of ﬁve steps that could be applied to nearly any subject matter: (a) prepare the student’s mind for the coming lesson (e.g., arouse students’interests and relate the new material to famil- iar ideas); (b) present the lesson (e.g., use appropriate means such as using storytelling with young children); (c) compare, or associate the new lesson with material previously learned (e.g., use concrete things and experiences); (d) generalization or abstraction (e.g., express ideas conceptually by using prin- ciples and general rules); and, ﬁnally, (e) require that the stu- dents use, or apply, the new material appropriately (e.g., have students practice using varied examples) (Berliner, 1993; Grinder, 1989; Hilgard, 1996).

The work of Friedrich Froebel had a very direct effect on educational thinking and practice in the United States (Hilgard, 1996). Froebel, the founder of the kindergarten movement, was a bit of a romantic and thought of kinder- garten as a place to train children in cooperative living. He also wanted to foster creativity and active learning in chil- dren. In 1873 the ﬁrst public kindergarten was established in St. Louis, and by 1880, America had over 400 private kindergartens. At the same time, the public school system and the idea of compulsory school attendance emerged. Many of these ideas about universal education and its pur- poses were inﬂuenced by the optimistic views of society and the ideas of these European philosophers and statesmen. The transition to a greater psychological basis for educational

conceptions and practices was also developing during this time in America.