# A Nurturing Zeitgeist

had a long history of opposition to lay analysts, despite Freud’s precepts to the contrary (Freud, 1927).At training in- stitutes under its aegis, the American Psychoanalytic Associ- ationwouldadmitonlyphysicians,unlessanonphysicianﬁrst agreed to use his or her education only for purposes of re- search or self-enlightenment and not to train nonphysician colleaguesinpsychoanalysis.Europeanpsychologistssuchas Theodore Reik did not accept these restrictions. Instead, Reik founded his own psychoanalytic training institute in the United States, which welcomed psychologists and other men- tal health professionals.

As the war drew to a close, it was recognized that there were going to be enormous demands for clinical psycholo- gists to provide their services to veterans. There were 16 mil- lion veterans of World War II and 4 million veterans of previous wars.TheVeteransAdministration (VA) estimated it alone would need 4,700 clinical psychologists and vocational counselors,andtherewasnothingclosetothatnumberofclin- icians.AjointAPAandAAAPcommittee,withDavidShakow as chairman, began meeting in 1944 to address the problem. That committee decided that rather than develop new profes- sional schools, it would be better to use existing universities and programs.A4-year graduate course of instruction leading to the PhD degree was proposed: the ﬁrst year to ground the student in psychology as a science, research methodology, and theory; clinical courses, practicums, and an internship would be in the second and third years; and the fourth year would involve ﬁnishing the doctoral dissertation.

All the planets and stars seemed to be in the proper alignment. The chief of the Division of Clinical Psychology and Neuropsychiatry at the VA was James G. Miller, who earned simultaneously both a PhD in psychology and an MD at Harvard; he recognized the value of clinical psychologists, supported their training in psychotherapy, and sought to give them equal status with psychiatrists (Hilgard, 1987). The APA endorsed the graduate program recommended by the committee and agreed to evaluate and monitor schools and training facilities to ensure they were meeting standards. Robert Felix, a psychiatrist who was the ﬁrst director of the newly created National Institutes of Mental Health (NIMH), was also friendly toward psychol- ogy; in 1946, the NIMH began its program of training grants and was soon awarding over $200,000 a year to stu- dents in clinical psychology and making funds available for psychological research. Also in 1946, the APA published its ﬁrst list of acceptable schools for graduate training in clini- cal psychology, realizing there was much more to be done in setting standards.

In 1947, Carl Rogers, as president of the APA, appointed David Shakow to chair yet another Committee on Training in

345