---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c13abe723a6e39c97299d98e8b857d16a9979fd4
title: untitled
---
# Eyewitness Memory

The issue of the accuracy of eyewitness memory did not re- ceive much attention from researchers from the 1920s until the late 1960s, when legal interest was sparked by three Supreme Court decisions relating to eyewitness evidence (Gilbert v. California, 1967; Stovall v. Denno, 1967; United States v. Wade, 1967) and by legal writers’ suggestions that eyewitness errors had led to more convictions of innocent persons than all other judicial factors combined (e.g., Wall, 1965). Consequently, research interest increased dramati- cally in the 1970s (e.g., see Buckhout, 1974; Loftus, 1979; Yarmey, 1979 for reviews of this early work). By the end of this decade, Yarmey (1979, p. 228) argued that it was already the most advanced area of psycholegal research and the one “most able to make a signiﬁcant contribution to the legal sys- tem.” In fact, there was such an explosion of eyewitness re- search in the 1970s and early 1980s that Michael Saks, editor of Law and Human Behavior, felt compelled in a 1986 edito- rial to remind readers that “the law does not live by eyewit- ness testimony alone” (Saks, 1986, p. 279).

Eyewitness researchers studied aspects of the acquisition (encoding) phase, such as the witness’s opportunity to ob- serve the criminal, level of stress, presence of a weapon, age and race of the witness, and characteristics of the criminal. Studies also analyzed the retention phase, the period between witnessing an event and trying to retrieve the memory by making an identiﬁcation. Researchers studied how the length of this interval affected memory accuracy and also looked at effects of events that happened during this period, such as potentially confusing or suggestive postevent information that might cause “unconscious transfer” or memory blending. Important aspects of the retrieval phase have included the type of identiﬁcation procedure used (e.g., showup, simulta- neous lineup, sequential lineup), the effect of suggestive in- structions or procedures, and the overall relationship (or lack of it) between witnesses’ accuracy and conﬁdence in their identiﬁcations.

A great deal of pertinent research data have been accumu- lated about eyewitness memory, but despite the plethora of re- search (e.g., see Cutler & Penrod, 1995; Sporer, Malpass, & Koehnken, 1996, for summaries), judicial acceptance of the testimony of researchers on eyewitness memory has been slow in coming (Brigham, Wasserman, & Meissner, 1999). Many jurisdictions regularly rejected proposed “educational” experttestimonybyeyewitnessresearchers,althoughby1993

there had been at least 450 cases in 26 states in which eyewit- ness researchers had testiﬁed as experts (Fulero, 1993). It has been pointed out that “no such problem of admissibility was raised in the 1950s when clinical psychologists began to tes- tify on mental disorders or when social psychologists ﬁrst appeared to describe the debilitating personality conse- quences of segregation” (Loh, 1981 p, 332). One reason for the cool legal reception to eyewitness researchers is that the law requires particularized proof rather than general proof (e.g., average responses as shown by research), and the law is reluctant to assume that there is a one-to-one correspondence betweenpotentialunreliabilityofeyewitnesses(whichiscon- ceded) and its actual impact in a particular trial (which must be proven). Another issue is that many courts have assumed that awareness of the fallibility of eyewitness evidence is alreadywithinthe“commonknowledge”ofmostjurors,leav- ing no need for expert testimony (Brigham et al., 1999).

Thetypeofissuestudiedmayalsomakeadifference.Wells (1978, 1993) asserted that psychologists should concentrate on studying system variables, that is, factors that are change- able within the system (e.g., police procedures, interrogation techniques, fairness of lineups), rather than estimator vari- ables, whose impact in any particular situation can only be estimated (e.g., level of stress, weapon focus, race). Wells as- serted that because of their potential usefuless for improving procedures, the results of system-variable research would be more readily accepted by the legal system than would estimator-variable research. It remains to be seen whether the legalsystemwillbecomemorereceptiveinthefuturetoexpert testimony about the memory of eyewitnesses, or whether the results of eyewitness research ﬁnd their way into the legal sys- tem by other means (e.g., via science-translation briefs).
