data/clean/untitled__chunk2236.md, before:

# 402 Forensic Psychology

and relevant to the case at hand. The Court stressed that the “overarching subject is the scientiﬁc validity” of the research in question rather than its general acceptance within the rele- vant scientiﬁc community. Thus, trial judges were assigned the role of gatekeeper, whose task is to decide, in effect, whether the proposed testimony represents methodologically sound research or is “junk science.”

In Kumho Tire v. Carmichael (1999), the Supreme Court reafﬁrmed this aspect of the Daubert decision, ruling that trial judges should be granted broad latitude in determining which factors are applied in assessing the reliability of a given expert’s testimony. The court also extended Rule 702 to include all expert testimony, whether it is “scientiﬁc,” “tech- nical,” or represents “other specialized knowledge.”

Because Daubert was a federal case rather than a state case, it has been left up to nonfederal jurisdictions whether to apply the Daubert standards or to retain the Frye test as the arbiter of admissibility. At present it is unclear what effect the Daubert decision will have on scientiﬁc psychological testi- mony or on clinical expert testimony. Regarding scientiﬁc testimony, it has been pointed out that, while the decision may open the door to innovative, valid new evidence that has not yet received widespread acceptance within the relevant scientiﬁc community, it also potentially opens the door for testimony based on questionable techniques that are unrecog- nized by the scientiﬁc community for good reasons, reasons that are not necessarily discernible by persons who are not trained in scientiﬁc methodology. Other observers have wor- ried about whether the decision may be used to exclude the testimony of clinical psychologists expressing opinions about speciﬁc issues, especially on such controversial foren- sic issues as predicting dangerousness, rape, trauma, the pres- ence of sex stereotyping, and child sexual abuse. Because interpretations of the Daubert standards have varied widely in the years since it was handed down, the question of its eventual impact remains open (Grove & Barden, 1999; Mark, 1999; Shuman & Sales, 1999).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk2236.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4eed0bc3012d3d4d31db5f7e509be83b4a596fe1
title: untitled
---
## Emergence of Forensic Psychology as a Recognized Subﬁeld 401

and (4) whether the probative value of the testimony out- weighed its possible prejudicial effect. Most subsequent deci- sions based on the Amaral criteria have come down against the admittance of expert testimony on the reliability of eye- witnesses (Brigham, Wasserman, & Meissner, 1999).

A new evidence code for federal cases, the Federal Rules of Evidence, was enacted in 1975 after extensive considera- tion by a prominent advisory committee, the U.S. Supreme Court, and both houses of Congress. The Federal Rules describe the criteria for admission of evidence for the entire federal court system; many states subsequently adopted sim- ilar codes. The central theme, as summarized by Woocher (1986, p. 48), is: “Only relevant evidence is admissible, and all relevant evidence is admissible in the absence of some countervailing policy” (italics in original). These relatively liberal criteria for admissibility are established in Rule 702, which declares that if scientiﬁc, technical, or other special- ized knowledge would assist the trier of fact (judge, jurors) to understand the evidence or to determine a fact in issue, then a qualiﬁed expert may deliver expert testimony about the mat- ter (Federal Rules of Evidence, 1975).

The U.S. Supreme Court dealt with the issue of the admis- sibility of scientiﬁc evidence in Daubert v. Merrill Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (1993). In addressing the differences between the Federal Rules of Evidence and the more restric- tive Frye test, the Court faced questions central to the poten- tial conﬂict between science and the law. To what extent should judges be gatekeepers, screening out “junk science” from naive jurors who might otherwise be misled or overly awed by its scientiﬁc appearance? Conversely, to what extent should juries be permitted to serve their traditional role as fact ﬁnders by having access to any evidence that is poten- tially relevant?

In its decision, the Court focused on the acceptability of the techniques used to gather the scientiﬁc evidence rather than on its “general acceptance” within the scientiﬁc commu- nity (as in the Frye test). The Court discussed the importance of establishing that the testimony is based on research that adheres to the “scientiﬁc method” and is “not only relevant, but reliable” (what is described as “reliable” by the justices would be called “valid” by psychologists). The Court’s deci- sion discussed several standards for evaluating the research, including peer review of published work, its testability (or “falsiﬁability”), whether it has a recognized “rate of error,” and whether it is consistent with recognized professional standards in the area.

Under this decision, judges must evaluate not only the conclusions but also the methods used by scientiﬁc experts. The Court opined that Rule 702 assigned to the trial judge the task of ensuring that the expert’s testimony was both reliable
