---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: a8e90472eb7a37a9e09b551dac9d004e9f3f1d82
title: untitled
---
# 94 Sensation and Perception

then goes on to make it quite explicit that to understand men- tal phenomena we must understand “the Wheelwork and Internal Contrivance of such Anatomical Engines,” including those that are responsible for perception (e.g., the eye and the ear).

This kind of thinking could encourage study of the body as a machine and leave the issue of soul to a more di- vine province. As an example, consider René Descartes (1596–1650), who accepted a dualistic approach. While sensory processing and response to stimulus inputs from the environment could be solely mechanical and could be stud- ied empirically, Descartes felt that the higher levels of men- tal life, such as conscious perception, would require a soul and the intervention of God. According to Descartes, ani- mals could process sensory inputs mechanically with no consciousness and no intelligence. He was convinced that this was a reasonable position after observing the statues in the royal gardens of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, the birthplace and home of Louis IV. These human-sized statues, con- structed by the Italian engineer Thomas Francini, were au- tomated and could behave in surprisingly lifelike ways. Each ﬁgure was a clever piece of machinery powered by hy- draulics and carefully geared to perform a complex se- quence of actions. For instance, in one grotto a ﬁgure of the mythological Greek musician Orpheus makes beautiful music on his lyre. As he plays, birds sing and animals caper and dance around him. In another grotto, the hero Perseus ﬁghts with a dragon. When he strikes the dragon’s head, it is forced to sink into the water. The action of each ﬁgure was triggered when visitors stepped on particular tiles on the pathway. The pressure from their step tripped a valve, and water rushing through a network of pipes in the statue caused it to move.

In the Treatise on Man published in 1664, Descartes draws a parallel between the human body and the animated statues or automata in the royal gardens. He reasons that the nerves of the human body and the motive power provided by them are equivalent to the pipes and the water contained in the stat- ues. He compares the heart to the source of the water, the var- ious cavities of the brain with the storage tanks, and the muscles with the gears, springs, and pulleys that move the various parts of the statues. These statues do, of course, have the capability to respond to some aspects of stimulation from the outside world. In this case, the “stimulation” might be the pressure of the visitor’s weight on a hidden lever beneath a tile, which causes a ﬁgure of Diana, who is caught bathing, to run away into the reeds to hide. If the visitor tries to follow her, pressure on another tile causes Neptune to rush forward, brandishing his trident protectively.

Using the ﬁgures in garden as his example, Descartes notes that in some ways the human body is like one of these mechanical contrivances, moving in predictable ways and governed by mechanical principles. Because he misunder- stood what he was looking at by confusing the blood vessels that are found in the optic nerve with the nerve itself, he sug- gested that the optic nerve was simply a tube that contained “animal spirits” where motions are impressed by an image and are thus carried to the brain. He argued that there is noth- ing in animal behavior that could not be reproduced mechan- ically. While there appear to be complex activities going on in animals, these take place without any consciousness or thought. A number of activities that seem to require reason and intelligence, such as some of our protective reﬂexes, do not really require or use consciousness. An example is when you touch a hot surface. You usually withdraw your hand, without any voluntary or conscious command to your mus- cles to do so. In fact, most people who have experienced this ﬁnd that their hand had already lifted from the hot surface be- fore they were even conscious of the pain from their ﬁngers. The consciousness of pain actually follows the protective withdrawal of the hand. According to Descartes, this is the level at which animals work. Their basic bodily functions and their basic apparent responsiveness to the environment are all without the need for consciousness, intelligence, self- awareness, or a soul. However, no matter how complex the movements of any machine might be, and no matter how variable and intricate the engineers have made its behavior, machines will always differ from a human being. The reason is that human beings have not only a body (controlled by mechanics) but also a soul (controlled by spirit). To have a soul or a mind is to have the capacity to think and to have consciousness and hence perception.

By the early nineteenth century, the study of the nervous system was beginning to advance. The world’s ﬁrst institute for experimental physiology was established by Johannes Müller (1801–1858) in Berlin. Müller’s Handbook of Physi- ology, which summarized the physiological research of the period and contained a large body of new material from his own lab, was eagerly accepted, as is shown by its rapid trans- lation and republication in English only ﬁve years later. Müller’s conceptual breakthrough, the Doctrine of Speciﬁc Nerve Energies, was actually a direct attack on the image or eidola notion.

To see the problem facing Müller, one must ﬁrst recognize that the classical view of the mind was that there exists within the brain something like a sentient being, a Sensorium, that wants to learn about the external world but can never come closer to it than the direct contact provided by the nerves.

ImaginethattheSensoriumisaprisonerintheskullandwants to know about the Eiffel Tower. The only ways that it could learn about it would involve having pictures of the tower, or small copies of it (eidola) brought in, or failing that, at least a verbal description of it. Notice that the representation of the object to the mind is a real copy in kind. If there are no copies oftheobject,orifthenervescannotcarrythem,thenwecould still have a symbolic representation of them, such as wordlike symbols, as long as these have a ﬁxed functional relationship to the object so that the mind can recreate its properties by inference. However, there was already some data that sug- gested that images, or symbols representing images, were not being passed down the nerves. For instance, Charles Bell (1774–1842) pointed out that we perceive sensory qualities based on the speciﬁc nerve that is stimulated, not on the basis of the object providing the stimulation. If, for example, you putpressureontheeyeball,youwillstimulatetheretina;how- ever, what you perceive will be light, not pressure.

Müller introduced the concept that the Sensorium is only directly aware of the states of the sensory nerves, not of the external object. Each nerve can only transmit information about one speciﬁc energy source, and there are ﬁve such nerve energies, one for each of the senses. Thus, a stimulus acting on a nerve that is tuned for visual energies will be per- ceived as visual, regardless of whether the actual stimulus was light, mechanical, or electrical stimulation. Finally, he suggested that the actual speciﬁcity is recognized only at the termination of the nerve in the brain. In doing this, he was in- corporating the work of Pierre Flourens (1794–1867), who had demonstrated that speciﬁc locations in the brain con- trolled speciﬁc functions. Flourens based this upon data from animals that had had parts of the brain systematically de- stroyed and thus lost particular motor functions, as well as various visual and auditory reﬂexes. Later on this would be conﬁrmed using human subjects who had head injuries due to war or accident and who also suffered from sensory impair- ments dependent on the location of the injury.

Müller’s break with the eidola theory was not complete, however. He felt that each “adequate stimulus” impressed a wealth of information on the appropriate neural channel by exciting a vis viva (life force) or vis nervosa (neural power), which took an impression of all the information that would have been present had there been an actual eidola or image present. In this he was expressing the old physiological doc- trine of vitalism, which maintained that living organisms were imbued with some special force that was responsible for life and consciousness but not subject to scientiﬁc analysis. This is very similar in tone to the concept of animal spirits postulated by Descartes.
