# Individualized Assessment Ventures

Murray’sapproachhassurvivedincertainintellectual“niche” positions:forexample,intheworkofRobertWhite(aMurray protégéandaformermemberofAllport’slifehistoryseminar; see G. W.Allport, 1967) on the “study of lives” (White, 1952, 1963,1972).Murray’sapproachhascontinuedtobeimportant incertainkindsofassessmentsituations.DuringWorldWarII, he and several colleagues developed an assessment program, loosely modeled on the Explorations project, for selecting personnel (i.e., spies serving behind enemy lines, mostly) for theU.S.OfﬁceofStrategicServices,forerunneroftheCentral Intelligence Agency (Ofﬁce of Strategic Services [OSS] As- sessment Staff, 1948). After the war, Donald MacKinnon, a Murray protégé, used the OSS assessment system as a model for establishing the Institute for Personality Assessment and Research (IPAR) at the University of California, Berkeley (MacKinnon, 1967). (In the early 1990s, perhaps as a sign of ambivalence about the “person” versus dimensional ap- proaches, and in response to funding opportunities, the insti- tutewasrenamedInstituteforPersonalityandSocialResearch [IPSR].) At the same time, “assessment centers,” loosely basedonmanyofMurray’sprinciples,cametoplayanimpor- tant role in selection and development of senior executives in U.S. corporations (Bray, 1982, 1985; Campbell & Bray, 1993). In contrast, nomothetic questionnaire-based assess- ment predominates in the selection and guidance of lower- level workers, and at all levels of education.

Why the difference? Person-centered assessment is clearly expensive and time-consuming. Probably these costs can only be justiﬁed in a few situations, where choosing the right or wrong person has important ﬁnancial or social conse- quences—for example, the right spy, the most effective corporate senior ofﬁcer. In a very real sense, therefore, personality assessment (and personality psychology gener- ally) remains stratiﬁed, more or less along lines of social power and social class: person-centered for elites (and for criminals and others who threaten or challenge elite power; see our discussion of vivid persons, below), nomothetic for the masses.