---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 77a4d51864eea5afb0e526ab4e8acb0521df68b9
title: untitled
---
## Brain Pathology Model of Psychopathology and Nervous Diseases

By the end of the eighteenth century and during the early nineteenth century, the development of new technologies to study the brain and nervous system produced ﬁndings that were to provide the foundations of modern neurology. The medical community accepted the role of electrical impulses transmitted within central nervous system tissue in the medi- ation of behavior, and old beliefs about the role of the blood and generalized vis nervosa faded from the scene. It had be- come clear that the central nervous system integrates the sen- sory and motor systems of the higher organisms. The brain’s importance as the organ of human thought and behavior was ﬁrmly established and led to the emphasis on disorders of the

brain and nervous system to account for psychopathology. Accumulating evidence of human psychological and physi- cal variability also produced a shift in emphasis to neurolog- ical causes of insanity. Such evidence, it was argued, could not be attributed solely to different experiences in basically similar human beings. The variety and extremes of mental disorder exceeded the apparent explanatory capacity of the associationist psychology.

These changes led to development of the brain pathology model of psychopathology, which held that psychopathology represents, not unfortunate psychological processes learned by the individual in the social milieu, but malfunction and morbidity of the central nervous system variously caused by hereditary faults, disease, malnutrition, toxins, and stress. For example, Moseley (1838) stated that “. . . disease in the organ of the brain and not in the mind is the cause of nervous complaints and insanity is now admitted.” He believed that the brain could be affected by environmental and psycholog- ical factors as well as by toxic agents (e.g., if not exercised, the brain, like other organs, becomes relaxed and sinks into a condition of incompetency). The predisposing causes of insanity that he lists are similar to the causes of melancholy suggested by Robert Burton in the seventeenth century. An extreme of this view was to trace all psychopathology to hypothetical lesions in the brain. Writing some 40 years after Moseley, Henry Maudsley, whose major works appeared between 1867 and 1879, believed all psychopathology was caused by brain disease.

Franz Joseph Gall (1758–1828), whose major work was published between 1822 and 1825, opposed the prevailing view that the mind is a unitary thinking thing. He asserted that it consists of interacting separate psychological faculties, each with a separate locus in the brain, one of each in the two cerebral hemispheres (a theory he called organology). He agreed with the view that each side of the brain can serve as a complete organ, one side providing a backup for the other. He held that derangement of thinking and behavior are caused by disease of particular parts of the brain, notably gross under- or overdevelopment of particular cerebral or- gans, or to an imbalance between cerebral organs. Gall main- tained that all humans are vulnerable to malfunction of the brain that can result in insanity, although some people have a greater constitutional disposition to insanity than others (Gall, 1825/1835, Vol. 1, p. 281).
