data/clean/untitled__chunk2442.md, before:

# Ecological Assessment

Though discontent within the ﬁeld around its insistent preoc- cupation with individual-oriented variables was expressed, several notable scholars at the time paved the way to assess- ing contextual variables. In the 1970s, Rudolph Moos and Edison Trickett were among the ﬁrst to develop methodolo- gies for assessing context with the “environment scales.” Various forms of this scale have been developed to assess the perceived climate of different environments such as class- rooms (Trickett & Quinlan, 1979), family environments (Moos, 1974; Moos & Moos, 1984), work settings (Moos, 1974), and group settings (Moos, 1974). The valuable work of Moos and his colleagues made explicit the role of the en- vironment in the study of behaviors of individuals. Though Moos and Lemke (1996) later expanded the conceptualiza- tion of environmental assessment, a critique of this approach

had been that the scales were truly reﬂective of setting mem- bers’ratings of satisfaction with the setting rather than actual characteristics of the setting (see Linney, 2000, for a more detailed discussion).

As the ﬁeld matured into the 1980s, community psycholo- gists began to advocate for the development of more methods that would assess the environment at an extra-individual level (Seidman, 1988; Shinn, 1990) and have devoted conferences, suchasthe1988ChicagoConference,toissuesoftheoriesand methods within the community psychology framework. At this conference, particularly notable was Edward Seidman’s discussion of “social regularities,” a theoretical construct that attended to the variation of individual behavior across con- texts and over time (Linney, 1986; Seidman, 1988, 1990).

Furthering the theories established by the ecological framework, which highlight communities and their strengths, Chavis & Wandersman (1990) discussed improving the ﬁt between people and their communities. Instead of focusing on the “people” part of the equation, they focused on the communities: “Strengthening the ability of these institu- tions to live up to the dreams of their members must be our goal” (Chavis, 1993, p. 172). Whitman, White, O’Mara, and Goeke-Morey (1999) also studied how the environment can assist in or detract from the development of infants. Contra- dicting previous assumptions that these infants were unaf- fected by their surroundings, they showed how to build on existing environmental resources to positively impact their development. Identifying environmental resources and how they may contribute to this positive development continues to be an important goal for community psychologists.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk2442.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: cd477719b85e2f51df52efe9925209f637178775
title: untitled
---
# 438 Community Psychology

should community psychologists conduct ecological and contextual analyses?”

Following the Swampscott Conference, the answer to this question has primarily been the “Ecological Framework.” Though the history of ecological theory began, in practice, in the 1930s with the work of Lewin (see Swartz & Martin, 1997), the tradition of ecological thought in the context of community psychology research and intervention began in the 1960s with the work of James G. Kelly and colleagues (Kelly, 1966, 1968; Trickett, Kelly, & Todd, 1972). Inspired by Barker, Kelly’s (1967, 1968) translation of concepts from biological ecology to the human social system gave commu- nity psychologists a theoretical framework for both research and intervention from which they could begin to conceptual- ize persons-in-context. Kelly (1970, 1971, 1986) discussed the purpose of ecologically oriented community research to understand those social processes that promote the health and well-being of individuals and organizations: “The prospect of obtaining knowledge about the positive development of per- sons in natural settings could be increased if psychologists worked to create empirical data about the ways in which communities evolve and how they establish criteria and norms” (Kelly, 1971, p. 135). He suggested that future com- munity psychologists be trained to recognize the existing re- sources in communities and understand how these resources contribute to the success of community members. Under- standing these processes has many implications for interven- tion initiatives, as intervention efforts are expected to be more successful when focused on supporting the natural strengths in a community (Cowen, 2000b; Kelly, 1968; Kelly et al., 1988).

To illustrate, one setting selected to elaborate the ecologi- calperspectivewasschools(Chesler&Fox,1966;Edwards& Kelly, 1980; Kelly, 1968; B. E. Long, 1968; Schmuck, Chesler, & Lippitt, 1966; Trickett et al., 1972). These authors worked to identify systems-level resources and their impact on the positive development of children. Speciﬁcally, Kelly and colleagues (1968, 1979; Edwards & Kelly, 1980) applied the framework to expand the understanding of the impacts of high school settings on students’ behaviors and advance thinking on the use of natural resources of high schools. These scholars made meaningful contributions to the process of conceptualizing and researching human behavior with their sharp contrast to traditional psychological modes of conducting research in which “context stripping” has been part and parcel in methods of experimental design (Mishler, 1979, p. 2).

Within the ﬁeld of developmental psychology, the work of Urie Brofennbrenner made another contribution to the ﬁeld’s conceptualizationoftheperson-in-context.Thoughthistheory

evolved after and separately from the ecological metaphor described by Kelly and his colleagues, Bronfenbrenner’s developmental-ecological model also departed from Barker’s work in the 1950s. He supported the idea that “human devel- opmentisaproductofinteractionbetweenthegrowinghuman organism and its environment” and critiqued the larger ﬁeld of psychologyforfocusingon“thepersonandonlythemostrudi- mentaryconceptionandcharacterizationoftheenvironmentin which the person is found” (Brofenbrenner, 1979, p. 16).

Following the theoretical and empirical work of Barker, Kelly, and Brofenbrenner, the emphasis on studying context and its inﬂuence on a person’s behavior became formalized in community psychology. However, issues arose in applying these concepts to conducting research. Tensions arose around the extent to which the ﬁeld was still wedded to individually oriented research and practice. Beginning in 1967, a series of conferences began to address these concerns. As Ira Iscoe (1997) said, “There was a noted malaise that Community Psychology was not moving ahead . . . and such terms as the need to abandon psychic determinism for a recognition of the environmental factors was stressed” (p. 7). In 1975, the Austin Conference was sponsored by the University of Texas at Austin and NIMH to “critically assess the many problems facing community psychology and to examine community psychology’s conceptual independence from both clinical psychology and community mental health” (Iscoe, 1975, p. 1193). The planning committee of Iscoe, Bernard Bloom, Charles Spielberger, and Brian Wilcox invited 139 partici- pants with an emphasis on recruiting new PhD’s and ethnic minority psychologists (Iscoe, Bloom, & Spielberger, 1977). Again the ﬁeld was hearing the call to address the lack of innovation in contextual analysis.
