---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7dee19ce4c3858f73bcb28f189fc0c8634db945a
title: untitled
---
# Return to the Biology of Development

Of considerable importance in the current period is the lively interest of developmental psychologists in biology. This interest has been expressed in many ways. One way is the in- vestigation of psychophysiological responses associated with different emotions and different social situations, such as separation of a child from the mother or the entrance of a stranger into the room (Field, 1987). These studies provide additional evidence in support of the speciﬁcity-of-emotion hypothesis (i.e., that different emotions may have different elicitors and distinct psychophysiological patterns; Campos et al., 1983).

A second way the current interest in the biological bases of behavior is expressed is through the study of genetics. This return to biology resulted, in part, from advances in the ﬁeld of behavior genetics, which produced a more sophisti- cated understanding of the potential role that genetics can play not only in the onset of certain behaviors but in the un- folding of behavior across development (Plomin, DeFries, & McLearn, 1990). This work has generally taken the form of determining the possible genetic origins of certain traits, such as extroversion and introversion, and other aspects of temperament, as well as the age of onset of emotional mark- ers such as smiling and fear of strangers. For example, Plomin and DeFries (1985) found that identical twins exhibit greater concordance than fraternal twins in the time of onset and amount of social smiling. Similarly, identical twins are more similar than fraternal twins in social responsiveness (Plomin, 1986). At the same time, behavior genetic re- searchers are documenting the clear and necessary role of the environment in this process. Plomin’s (1994) reformula- tion of genetic questions has led to a call for studies of nonshared-environment effects and represents a good exam- ple of how behavior genetics has stimulated new designs for the assessment of both genetic and environmental inﬂuences. Rather than returning to an old-fashioned nature-nurture de- bate, the new behavior genetics is spurring the development of better measures of the environment that will enable us to assess the interactions of nature and nurture in more mean- ingful ways. Clearly, environmental inﬂuences matter; they simply need to be measured better. One of the ironies of recent years is that some of the most compelling evidence that environmental effects are important comes from behav- ior genetics. At the same time, advances in the measurement and conceptualization of speciﬁc environmental inﬂuences
