# The Wechsler Scales

The Stanford-Binet was the ﬁrst systematically formulated and standardized measure of intelligence, and for many years it was by far the most commonly used method of evaluating intelligence in young people and adults as well. The kinds of tasks designed by Binet have continued to the present day to provide the foundation on which most other tests of intelli- gence have been based. Beginning in the late 1930s, how- ever, a new thread in the history of intelligence testing was woven by David Wechsler (1896–1981), then chief psychol- ogist at Bellevue Hospital in New York City. Wechsler saw shortcomings in deﬁning intelligence by the ratio of mental age to chronological age, especially in the evaluation of adults, and he developed instead a method of determining IQ on the basis of comparing test scores with the normative dis- tribution of these scores among people in various age groups. The instrument he constructed borrowed subtests from the Stanford-Binet, the Army Alpha and Beta, and some other ex- isting scales, and thus it was not new in substance. What was new was the statistical formulation of IQ as having a mean of 100 and a standard deviation of 15, which in turn led to the widely accepted convention of translating IQ scores into percentile ranks.

Also innovative was Wechsler’s belief that intellectual ca- pacities constitute an integral feature of personality function- ing, from which it followed that a well-designed intelligence test could provide useful information beyond the implications of an overall IQ score. Wechsler postulated that the pattern of relative strengths and weaknesses across subtests measuring different kinds of mental abilities could be used to identify normal and abnormal variations in numerous cognitive char- acteristics and coping capacities. Published as the Wechsler- Bellevue, Wechsler’s (1939) test gradually replaced the Stanford-Binet as the most widely used measure of adult