---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 7ac001755afad574db9b1d1f69b0f34225e537e7
title: untitled
---
# The Post-James Period

The half century following James was primarily dominated by his approach but with a lingering concern about the kind of mental events that were responsible for the conditions that produced organic, and especially visceral, reactions and the nature of the perceptions that made for speciﬁc emotional qualities. All of these were attempts to ﬁnd some way of bringing in the central nervous system. By 1936, Ruckmick had stressed the interaction of visceral and cognitive factors, and later Hunt, Cole, and Reis had speciﬁed how different emotions may be tied to speciﬁc environmental-cognitive interactions (J. Hunt, Cole, & Reis, 1958; Ruckmick, 1936). The major antecedent for the next signiﬁcant change in di- rection of emotion theory was an essentially anecdotal study

by the Spanish physician Gregorio Marañon (1924), who found that when he injected a large number of patients with adrenaline, approximately one-third of them responded with a quasi-emotional state. The rest reported little or no emo- tional response and simply reported a physiological state of arousal. However, the patients who reported emotional reac- tions typically noted that they felt “as if” they were afraid or “as if” something very good was about to happen. In other words, they did not report the full range of emotional experi- ence but something closely akin to it. Whenever Marañon discussed a recent emotional experience with his patients, such as a death in the family, the patients reported full rather than “as if” or “cold” emotion.

In part, these observations were the prolegomena for the Schachter and Singer experiments (1962) that changed the emotional landscape. Stanley Schachter (1971) put for- ward three general propositions: (a) Given a state of physio- logical arousal for which an individual has no immediate explanation, he will describe his state in terms of whatever cognitions are available. (b) Given a state of physiological arousal for which an individual has a completely appropri- ate explanation, no evaluative needs will arise and the individual is unlikely to label his feelings in terms of (any) cognitions available. (c) Given the same cognitive circum- stances, the individual will react emotionally or describe his feelings as emotions only to the extent that he experiences a stateofphysiologicalarousal.Inotherwords,bothphysiologi- cal arousal and cognitive evaluation are necessary, but neither is a sufﬁcient condition for the production of emotional states. The main contribution of Schachter’s group in the 1960s was in opening up a new era of investigation and theory. It redeﬁnedthepsychologyofemotionjustasJameshaddone70 years earlier. The contribution was not so much the ingenious experiments but a straightforward statement of a visceral- cognitivetheory.Visceralactionwassettingthestageforemo- tional experience, but so was a cognitive evaluation, and emotion was the product of the two. Perhaps more important wasthestatementthatgeneralautonomicarousalratherthana speciﬁc pattern was the visceral concomitant of emotional ex- perience. The consequences of this position have been a large number of experimental studies showing the inﬂuence of vis- ceral and cognitive factors ranging from the instigation of ag- gressive behavior to the occurrence of romantic love.

In the ﬁrst set of experiments, Schachter and Singer (1962) gave subjects injections of adrenaline under the cover story that these were vitamin compounds that would affect visual skills. Following the injection, subjects were either in- formed of the consequences of the injection (i.e., they were given correct information about the effects of adrenaline, but without having been told that they were given an adrenaline

injection), or they were not given any information about the effects of adrenaline, or they were misinformed.

In the informed condition, they were told that they would feel symptoms of sympathetic nervous system discharge. In the misinformed condition, they were given a description of parasympathetic symptoms, none of which would be ex- pected as a result of the adrenaline injection. Following the injection and the various types of information, the subject was left in a waiting room together with another person who was ostensibly another experimental subject but who was actually a “stooge” of the experimenters. Then the stooge would engage either in euphoric behavior (playing with paper airplanes, playing basketball with the wastebasket, and engaging in other happy behavior) or in angry behavior (be- coming more and more insulting, asking personal and insult- ing questions, and eventually leaving the room in anger).

The results were essentially in keeping with the two-factor theory. The degree of information about the physiological consequences of the injection was negatively correlated with the degree of self-reported emotional state and with the de- gree of emotional behavior induced by the stooge’s behavior. Thus, the misinformed group, which presumably had the highest evaluative need because the information they had been given about the physiological effects and their actual experiences were uncorrelated, showed the greatest degree of self-reported euphoria as well as anger. The informed group, with no “need” to explain their state, showed the lowest de- gree of induced emotion. The ignorant group fell in between the two other groups. The impact of these experiments was theoretical rather than empirical. In fact, no exact replication of these experiments is available, and a variety of misgivings have been aired about them.

With the Schachter experiments, the pure organic tradi- tion came to an end, at least for the time being. Once it had been shown that the inﬂuence of visceral response depended on cognitive factors, purely organic theories had played out their role. The line from James and Lange was switched to a more cognitive track. However, even if purely organic theo- ries seemed untenable, visceral-cognitive interactions still involved visceral response. I turn now to other evidence on the role of the autonomic nervous system in the production and maintenance of the emotions.
