# 496 Ethnic Minorities

adopted and continues to be implemented within theAssocia- tion’s Division 45, The Society for the Psychological Study of Ethnic Minority Issues. The establishment of the Society signaled that the issues and concerns of ethnic minorities achieved a formal place within the professional organization for psychologists, beginning to legitimize scholarship of color as a valid ﬁeld within psychology (Comas-Diaz, 1990). Althoughthedivisionembracedtheneedtodevelopanofﬁcial ethnic minority psychological journal, this priority was de- ferred due to ﬁnancial restraints.

While the American Psychological Association (1993) developed guidelines for providers of psychological services to ethnic, linguistic, and culturally diverse populations; the American Psychiatric Association ofﬁcially acknowledged the signiﬁcance of culture in the fourth edition of its Diag- nostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV) (Mezzich et al., 1993).

In 1994, John Wiley and Sons founded a new journal, Cultural Diversity and Mental Health, and asked me to be its founding editor-in-chief. An interdisciplinary endeavor, the journal capitalized on the mental health discipline’s recogni- tion of culture as a pivotal factor in diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. The journal brought together an impressive edi- torial board composed of many inﬂuential individuals in the ﬁelds of ethnic minority psychology, cultural psychiatry, and clinical social work.

Up to that time, articles on cultural topics were scattered throughout the mental health literature, often appearing in publications focusing on one particular ethnic group. As the ﬁrst publication of its kind, Cultural Diversity and Mental Health provided a forum for a wide array of theoretical, clin- ical, and research articles on cultural diversity. As such, it promoted a heightened multicultural literacy by offering the knowledge base and therapeutic tools to access and effec- tively treat individuals and communities of diverse back- grounds (Comas-Diaz, Grifﬁth, Pinderhughes, & Wyche, 1995). The Reﬂections feature, a memoir in which authors reﬂected on how culture impacted on their life experiences and professional development, became very popular.

After 10 years of existence, the Society for the Psycholog- ical Study of Ethnic Minority Issues was ﬁnancially secure and conﬁdent enough to establish an ofﬁcial journal. After much negotiation, John Wiley and Sons transferred the own- ership of Cultural Diversity and Mental Health to the Society as its ofﬁcial scholarly publication in 1998. The move, grace- fully shepherded by Kelly Franklyn, senior editor at Wiley, was an overwhelming success. Renamed Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychology in 1999, the journal provided a forum for promoting cultural competency and psychological understanding of ethnic minority groups. The journal’s aims

and scope were expanded to embrace a more general view of ethnic minority psychology. It offered a venue for the dissem- ination of scholarship in all aspects of ethnic minority psy- chology, including the psychology of race, diversity, and multiculturalism—recognizing the sociocultural, historical, and political embeddedness of psychological theory, research, and practice. It pledged its focus on the psychological and societal variables affecting ethnic minority groups such as American Indian/Alaskan Natives, Asian American/Paciﬁc Islanders, Black/AfricanAmericans, Latina/Latino/Hispanics within the United States.

The journal afﬁrmed collective identity by strengthening people of color’s ways of knowing and promulgating their scholarship through the publication of scholarship of color. Embracing unity through diversity (the organization’s motto), the Society’s executive committee appointed associ- ate and consulting editors reﬂecting the diversity within populations of color, in addition to non-ethnic minority psy- chologists (Comas-Diaz, 1998). The executive committee also encouraged the journal’s interdisciplinary focus and asked me to remain as editor-in-chief.

The Society established student editor positions to mentor and socialize psychologists-in-training into publishing.Work- ing closely with the associate editors, the student editors em- bodiedthenextstageinthejournal’sprogression.Forgingnew passages for young scholars, educators, and clinicians, Cul- turalDiversityandEthnicMinorityPsychologybecameoneof the ﬁrst journals to include students on its editorial board.

In 2000, Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychol- ogy arrived at its ﬁrst port. After founding the journal and servingasitseditorforsixyears,IturnedthereinsovertoGail E. Wyatt. Emphasizing the journal’s commitment to scholar- ship and research, she especially welcomed quantitative and quantitative research manuscripts. Additionally, Wyatt appointed a Counsel of Research Elders composed of senior scholars across diverse ﬁelds to write about contemporary issues that affect the psychology of ethnically diverse popula- tions (Wyatt, 2001). Wyatt’s arrival signaled the beginning of a new exciting era for the journal.

Ethnic minority scholarship is providing a prismatic lens to psychological publishing. As multiculturalism becomes ofﬁcially recognized in our society, counter movements such as faded mosaic (Clausen, 2000), presaging the death of “American” culture by igniting an ancestral fear of a cultural Tower of Babel, are beginning to emerge. Since “culture matters” (Harrison & Huntington, 2000), multiculturalism becomes the philosopher’s stone in the alchemy of life (Comas-Diaz, 2000). In its continuing journey, Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychology may become the beacon of scholarship of color.