# Popular Myths of Psychopathology

The popular theme in psychopathology is that over the cen- turies we have become increasingly knowledgeable and hu- mane in our treatment of mental illness. Past beliefs about the origins of psychopathology are seen as mostly unintelligent, andearliertreatmentmethodsasinhumaneandineffective.

An amalgam of these histories runs somewhat thus: From the beginning of mankind, people believed that abnormal behavior was caused by spirit or demon possession. Until approximately the eighteenth century, mental illness elicited superstitious reactions, hostility, maltreatment, and even per- secution by the community at large. One exception allowed in this grim scenario is said to have occurred in Greece in the ﬁfth century B.C., when, thanks to one notable physician, Hippocrates, a rational and scientiﬁc approach to abnormal psychology abruptly appeared and brieﬂy ﬂourished.

Some texts extend this period to the time of Galen (ca. A.D. 130–200), a Greek physician at the court of the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius. They tend to claim that afterthe collapseoftheRomanEmpiretheﬂedglingnaturalis- tic,scientiﬁcapproachtounderstandingpsychopathologywas eclipsed by a resurgence of rampant superstition, usually attributed to the retrograde inﬂuence of the Christian church. Early in the ﬁfteenth century, so the myth goes, it was a com- mon practice to segregate the mentally ill by putting them on “ships of fools.” Before this time Europe had virtually no mental hospitals although thousands of asylums were built to conﬁne lepers, and once leprosy disappeared, the mentally ill were conﬁned in them. Finally, during the eighteenth century, Philippe Pinel (1745–1826) liberated the insane from their chains in the Salpêtrière in Paris and enlightened individuals began moral treatment of the insane in small establishments. Unfortunately,sothestorygoes,duringthenineteenthcentury theserelativelybenigninstitutionsgrewintogiantwarehouses where, again, the mentally ill were maltreated. Finally, as a result of the efforts of psychiatrists and psychologists, knowl- edge of the causes of incrementally improved, culminating in humane scientiﬁc understanding and treatment, and the mal- treatment of the mentally ill ended.

In fact, improvements in the care of the mentally ill have arisen in part as a result of advances in scientiﬁc knowledge, in part by improvement in socioeconomic conditions which, in turn, stem in large part from technological innovations. How people with mental illness were treated in the past de- pended then, as now, on their social position and their ﬁnan- cial resources. It appears that many individuals who posed no danger to themselves or others often had the support and care of their families, were extended shelter by the religious com- munity, or permitted to support themselves by begging.

Treatments accorded in the past must be compared not to conditions today, but to the general conditions of those times. Although past housing conditions for mentally ill people were deplorable by modern standards, so were housing con- ditions during the same time period for sane poor people. Insane people were sometimes cruelly treated and sane per- sons accused of heresy, witchcraft, treason, even petty thiev- ery, were also subjected to great cruelties. Demons and other supernatural causes were invoked when naturalistic explana- tions were inadequate and rational treatments of no avail. We tentatively suggest that before the invention of the micro- scope, which enabled scientists to see germs, the belief that demons inhabiting the body were responsible for serious bodily and mental ills was not irrational.

Many of these mythical histories have a professional or political agenda. The thesis that the times prior to the eighteenth century were characterized by demonological

explanations of mental illness and cruel mistreatment of the mentally ill can be traced primarily to textbooks of psychia- try that promulgated the value of Freudian ideas. The claim that during the ﬁfteenth century the mentally ill were placed on “ships of fools” and sent out to sea derives from Michel Foucault’s, Madness and Civilization: A History of Insanity in the Age of Reason (1961/1965). Foucault presented his speculations about the historical treatment of the mentally ill to illustrate his conjecture that, in order to deﬁne themselves, the dominant group in a culture must exclude others who do not share the aspects they consider most important, reason, in the case of the mentally ill. The ﬁctitious nature of Foucault’s ship of fools has been thoroughly demonstrated (Maher & Maher, 1982).

No documentary evidence records prehistoric belief sys- tems; nevertheless, the lack of evidence has not deterred writ- ers of the history of psychopathology from making assertions about the beliefs held by prehistoric peoples regarding the cause and treatment of mental illness. Many such histories open with the statement that prehistoric man believed that deviant behavior was caused by demon-possession and so cut a hole in the skull of a mentally ill person in order to let the demon escape. A photograph of a prehistoric skull with a roughly circular hole in it is presented as evidence for this allegation. This popular myth of the trephined (or trepanned) skull has in it all of the elements of guesswork plus ignorance and indifference to actual evidence that characterize such myths.

Archaeologists have unearthed a large number of such skulls and dated them to the Neolithic period. The holes in the skulls are usually symmetrical and are thought to have been intentionally incised by the surgical technique of trepan- ning. Thickening of the bone around the margins of the holes in many of these skulls suggests healing and that the patient survived the operation for some time. We do not know the mental state of the patient and no direct evidence explains why the hole was cut. (See MacCurdy (1924) for more on trephining.)

Although we cannot prove wrong the assertion made about the trepanned skulls, neither can we prove it correct. It is based on an a priori assumption about prehistoric man ﬁrst advanced by the French neurologist, Paul Broca (1824–1880), when Neolithic trepanned skulls were found in the 1870s. Broca “felt that primitive man had made these holes in skulls in order to liberate evil spirits who might be causing headaches or epilepsy” (Ackerknecht, 1982, pp. 8–9). It is likely that Broca was inﬂuenced by a widely accepted theory of stages advanced by Auguste Comte (1798–1857), the French philosopher/sociologist who founded the school of positivism. Comte (1830–1842),