## Midcentury on: From Post–World War II and Post-Mechanism to Post-Positivism 233

subsequently in America by Horkheimer and the “Berkeley group” yielded the 1950 edited volume The Authoritarian Personality (Adorno, Frenkel-Brunswik, Levinson, & San- ford, 1950). Even though “Reich’s original problem” was reﬁtted to “a liberal, empiricist, individual-psychology framework” (Samelson, 1985, p. 200), study of authoritarian personality, like other examples mentioned, made visible the equation of “politics and psychology and the convergence of personal and social analysis” (Herman, p. 60). The “authori- tarian episode,” writes Graham Richards (1997), “was an expression of a complex but fundamental set of ideological conﬂicts being waged within and between industrialised white cultures: capitalism vs. communism, democracy vs. totalitarianism, liberalism vs. puritanism” (pp. 234–235). Insofar as authoritarian personality hinged individual person- ality to political ideologies and national character to inter- group and international tensions (including racism in the United States and leadership studies in small groups), then Lewinian small group research’s physical and mathematical language of space, ﬁeld, forces, and tensions served to link public and private spheres of home and work with liberal ideals of a technocraticAmerica (Deutsch, 1954; Gibb, 1954; Ash, 1992; van Elteren, 1993). Together, these levels of analysis (the individual, group, etc.) and social psychological phenomena offered different ways to conceive of the trafﬁc between the individual and the social world. They also func- tioned to remap how the social was construed to reside in or be created by the individual, as well as the function of these new ways of seeing individual and social life for all.

Still, once entered into, social psychology offers no Ariadne’s thread to guide historians through its disciplinary passageways of subject matters, epistemological shifts, and changing notions of subjectivity. Just as cultural, social, eco- nomic, and political life in the United States was in ﬂux, so the more familiar and routine in social psychology was being tossed up and rearranged. Gender and race rearrangements during andafterthewarin thedivision of work,in laborunion negotiations, and in domestic affairs signal incipient counter- culture and social movements ready to burst through the ve- neer of a culture of “containment” (Brienes, 1992; May, 1988). Much as some historians broaden out this moment’s sensibility as “not just nuclear energy that had to be con- tained, but the social and sexual fallout of the atomic age itself” (May, p. 94), so others add that the “tide of black mi- gration, coupled with unprecedented urban growth and pros- perity, reinvigorated African American culture, leading to radical developments in music, dance, language and fashion” (Barlow, 1999, p. 97). American life was being recreated, with the tug of desires for stability—cultural accommoda- tion and civil defense—exerting as much force as the drive

for change—cultural resistance and civil rights. Margot Henriksen (1997) writes of this tension as one between con- sent and dissent wherein for blacks “Western powers’racism and destructiveness came together explicitly in the Holocaust and implicitly in the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki” (p. 282). These entanglements of postwar anxi- eties, struggles, and dreams reverberated in America’s popu- lar imagination, such as Frank Capra’s early postwar ﬁlm It’s a Wonderful Life, Frank Conroy’s characterizations of 1950s America as “in a trance” and young Americans as the “silent generation,” Salinger’s age of anxiety in The Catcher in the Rye, the new science ﬁction genre ﬁlm The Day the Earth Stood Still, the rebel “beat generation” of Jack Kerouac, bebop jazz, and a “wave of African American disc jockeys introduc[ing] ‘rhyming and signifying’” (Barlow, p. 104; Breines, 1992; Henriksen, 1997).

Social psychological works appealed for new approaches to leadership and peace, group relations (at home and work), cohesiveness, ways to distinguish good democratic consen- sus (cooperation) from bad (compliance, conformity, and the more evil form of blind obedience), prejudice, trust, and sur- veillance (as, for example, in research by Allport, Asch, Gibb, Milgram, Thibaut, and Strickland). Tacking back and forth between social and cultural happenings marking this era and the ﬁeld’s own internal developments, social psychology did not simply mirror back the concerns of the age but rather was carving out its place in American life as it translated and built psychological inroads to America’s concerns of the day. Approaching problems of the day provoked as well cross- disciplinary interchange for many social psychologists, such as Kurt Lewin, Solomon Asch, Leon Festinger, Gordon Allport, and Theodore Newcomb. One way this need was for- malized for small group research was through centers, such as those at Harvard University, MIT, or the University of Michigan. Another way interdisciplinary interchange became inﬂuential within social psychology was through the Macy Foundation Conferences, which brought together researchers from, for example, mathematics, anthropology, neuropsy- chology, and social psychology for discussion on communi- cation and human relations, which came to be regarded as the area of cybernetics (Fremont-Smith, 1950). Amongst re- searchers attending the Macy Conferences were those who, such as Alex Bavelas, Gregory Bateson, and Margaret Mead, would come to construe social psychology’s small group concepts and dynamics through cybernetic notions of com- munication patterns, the ﬂow of information and human rela- tions (Heims, 1993). Together, the concerns of the day urged along disciplines on questions of moral certainty and episte- mological truth as military technologies of information the- ory and communication began to give rise to the cybernetic