data/clean/untitled__chunk1274.md, before:

# 216 Developmental Psychology

century is to discover which aspects of behavior are likely to be altered by environmental events at speciﬁc points in de- velopment and which aspects remain more plastic and open to inﬂuence across wide spans of development.

In terms of units of analysis, researchers have begun to conceptualize the unit of analysis as dyads within the family system, such as the parent–child dyad, the husband–wife dyad, and the sibling dyad (Belsky, 1984; Cowan & McHale, 1996; Parke, 1988). Moreover, units beyond the dyad have been recognized as important as well. Several researchers haverecentlybeguntoinvestigatetriads(Hinde&Stevenson- Hinde, 1988; Kreppner, 1988) as well as the family as units of analysis (Dickstein et al., 1998).

At present, this shift toward units beyond the individual is evident in cognitive as well as social development and is due, in part, to the revival of interest in Vygotskian theory. Lev Vygotsky (1896–1934), a Russian psychologist, championed the view that mental functioning is a kind of action that may be exercised by individuals or by dyads or larger groups (Wertsch, 1991). His view was one in which mind is under- stood as “extending beyond the skin.” “Mind, cognition and memory . . . are understood not as attributes or properties of individuals but as functions that may be carried out intermen- tally or intramentally” (Wertsch & Tulviste, 1992, p. 549). Such terms as socially shared cognition (Resnick, Levine, & Teasley, 1991), socially distributed cognition (Hutchins, 1991), and collaborative problem solving (Rogoff, 1990) re- ﬂect the increasing awareness that cognition can be a social as well as an individual enterprise.

In terms of methods, variety best describes the contempo- rary period. In the 1990s, the use of longitudinal designs in- creased markedly, motivated in part by an increased interest in issues of developmental stability and change. Two types of longitudinal studies are evident. Short-term longitudinal studies, in which a particular issue is traced over a short time period of a few months to a year, are currently popular (Clarke-Stewart, Gruber, & Fitzgerald, 1994; Hetherington & Clingempeel, 1992). These studies are of value for detecting short-term stability or for tracking development across a time period of assumed rapid change in an emerging developmen- tal process or structure.

Other longitudinal studies have a long-term character and have continued from infancy through childhood and into adolescence. For example, a number of investigators have followed families from infancy to the preadolescent or ado- lescent years (Sameroff, 1994; Sroufe, 1996). This strategy has permitted a more deﬁnitive evaluation of a variety of the- oretical issues, especially those concerning the effect of early experience, including the role of sensitive and critical periods on later development. Nonetheless, because of the expense

and difﬁculty of longitudinal research, cross-sectional de- signs still predominate among developmental investigations. Often researchers will use both strategies, and, in an area that is not yet well developed either theoretically or empirically, cross-sectional studies often precede longitudinal pursuit of an issue. A commitment to multiple design strategies rather than a near-exclusive reliance on a single design is character- istic of the current area.

In terms of experimental designs, a greater openness to multiple strategies is evident. Laboratory-based experimen- tal investigations coexist with nonexperimental observational ﬁeld studies. Data-collection strategies come in a variety of forms as well. In spite of its less than stellar history, the self-report measure has reentered our methodological repertoire; parent, teacher, and peer reports are now commonly used. Another note- worthy trend reﬂects in part the openness of researchers to multimethod strategies as opposed to strict adherence to one approach. Observational methods are widely used along with verbal reports. Evidence, not just speculation, may be driving the ﬁeld to this new openness to a wide range of methods. Some researchers have found that ratings of behavior yield better prediction of later social behavior (Bakeman & Brown, 1980) and later cognitive assessments (Jay & Farran, 1981) than do more microanalytic and more expensive measures of parent–child interaction.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk1274.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f4e5fb4138d643ccfe1f7641f37e171956b2fffc
title: untitled
---
# The Current Period (1985–Present) 215

increasingly appreciated. Not only are sociologists, anthro- pologists, and historians part of new developmental research teams, but so are neurologists, geneticists, lawyers, and epi- demiologists. It is likely that the interesting issues and ques- tions of the new century will arise at the boundaries between disciplines. The dichotomy between applied and basic re- search is fading rapidly, and child developmentalists are re- turning in increasingly large numbers to their applied roots. For example, research on mental-health issues among chil- dren is prominent, and work on how to improve children’s early development through intervention programs continues to ﬂourish (Coie & Jacobs, 1993).

In terms of developmental assumptions, developmental- ists have become less interested in strong forms of disconti- nuity organized around stage constructs. Rather, there is growing recognition that the course of development may vary markedly even for presumably related concepts. But there is also recognition that the entire issues of qualitative or quantitative change may depend on one’s point of observa- tion. As Siegler indicated, “When viewed from afar, many changes in children’s thinking appear discontinuous; when viewed from close-up, the same changes often appear as part of a continuous, gradual progression” (1991, p. 50).

Researchers in the 1980s and 1990s have taken seriously a life-span developmental perspective (Baltes, 1987). In part, this view emerges from a recognition that the social context provided by caregivers varies as a function of the location of the adults along their own life-course trajectory (Parke, 1988). The earlier view was that variations in parenting behavior were relatively independent of adult development. Evidence of this shift comes from a variety of sources, in- cluding studies of the impact of the timing of parenthood and the effects of maternal (and paternal) employment, job satis- faction, and work involvement on children’s development (Parke & Buriel, 1998). In addition, there is a serious return to the study of aging (Baltes, 1987; Salthouse, 1985), espe- cially the study of speed of processing, memory, and intel- ligence (e.g., Hertzog, 1989) and social behavior (e.g., Brubaker, 1990; Hanson & Carpenter, 1994).

Consistent with the shift toward a life-span view is the reevaluation of the role of critical periods in development. Recent evidence suggests that a modiﬁed version of sensi- tive, if not critical, periods is likely to emerge in contrast to a view of unlimited plasticity across development (Bornstein, 1989). For example, Rieser, Hill, Talor, Bradﬁeld, and Rosen (1992) have demonstrated that adult skill in spatial represen- tation seems to require early perceptual learning experiences that involve self-produced movement. Johnson and Newport (1989) found evidence for a sensitive period in grammatical mastery in acquiring a second language. The question for this
