# Women in Context

Feminists bring to clinical practice a focus on the gender system—the institutions, social practices, language, and nor- mative beliefs that constitute maleness and femaleness as we know them and that create and normalize power inequities. The ﬁrst feminist therapists incorporated consciousness rais- ing as part of therapy with women. Consciousness raising helped women see how “the personal is political,” that is, how private troubles were connected to social roles and ex- pectations and women’s subordinate status (Brodsky, 1977; Lerman, 1976). Feminist therapists and researchers view gender as a central feature of social life and personal iden- tity; thus, they seek to understand clients’ difﬁculties and strengths in relation to the gender system (L. S. Brown, 1994; Lerner, 1988). This angle of vision goes beyond cataloguing symptoms and syndromes. It sometimes dislodges conven- tional meanings of behavior and may even overturn custom- ary judgments about what is healthy or unhealthy.

The inﬂuence of the sociocultural context on women’s psychological well-being can be seen with special clarity in the case of eating problems. In the United States, more than 90% of those with clinical eating disorders are women. Women’s eating problems are neither timeless nor univer- sal; they are speciﬁc to contemporary Western societies (es- pecially North America). One line of feminist work has identiﬁed a prevailing “culture of thinness,” that is, the glamorization of ultrathin female bodies in the mass media. The culture of thinness promotes an intense preoccupation with body shape and size, feelings of shame and chronic dis- satisfaction with one’s body, and rigorous dieting in order to achieve an ideal body (Rodin, Silverstein, & Striegel-Moore, 1984). Other feminist work has drawn attention to motifs and themes associated with women’s body size, virtuous self- restraint, and self-denial (Bloom, Gitter, Gutwill, Koegel, & Zaphiropoulos, 1994). Another line of work has tied women’s eating problems to social processes of objectiﬁca- tion, which set a woman’s body parts and sexuality apart from her personhood (Frederickson & Roberts, 1997). Sexu- alized scrutiny, sexual evaluation, and sexual objectiﬁcation are continually present in women’s lives, both in actual inter- personal encounters and in media images (Kaschak, 1992). Not surprisingly, many women and girls come to adopt atti- tudes of self-scrutiny and self-evaluation, resulting in shame, anxiety, and distortions in body image. Eating problems may also arise as a means to relieve severe emotional strain—for example, adolescent struggles over coming out as a lesbian or

childhood experiences of sexual abuse (Thompson, 1995). As Thompson points out, gender is implicated in a multiplicity of ways in women’s eating problems.

Clinical researchers and practitioners have a unique van- tage point for examining the corrosive effects of intimate violence—wife beating, coercive sexual relations, sexual abuse—on women and girls (Walker, 1999). Violence against women is a concrete manifestation of the unequal power relations between men and women, as well as a crucial mech- anism of social control. Feminist theorists have probed the intricate connections between love, attachment, and violence and examined the cultural imperatives of masculinity and femininity (Goldner, 1999; McLean, Carey, & White, 1996). They also have offered accounts of the multiple ways that women experience, interpret, and react to male violence in their lives (Haaken, 1998; Lamb, 1996, 1999). Feminist ther- apists have pioneered treatment programs for women who have experienced negative effects of intimate violence, sex- ual abuse, and rape; for couples seeking to break patterns of violence in their relationships; and for abusive men and boys (e.g., Courtois, 1996; Goldner, Penn, Sheinberg, & Walker, 1990; Herman, 1992).

Many problems that heterosexual couples bring to treat- ment involve power disparities (Hare-Mustin, 1991). Power disparities include the lopsided distribution of household and family work and leisure time and the implicit privileging of men’s points of view, needs, and interests. There is a long line of feminist research concerning women’s domestic arrangements and depression, agoraphobia, and other clinical disorders (e.g., Radloff, 1975). From a feminist perspective, family life is embedded within the larger society, not a pri- vate domain set apart from it. Thus, feminists who are family therapists have called attention to problems within families resulting from such societal factors as women’s diminished earning power, the simultaneous idealization and blaming of mothers, the lack of facilities and support for caring for chil- dren or for frail or sick family members, and the stigma faced by families without men, such as female-headed households and lesbian families (Goodrich, 1991).