---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 4b66af7cc1335ce546cf3501e1cf7ea7a8ed08d2
title: untitled
---
# Hospitals

The London hospital of St. Mary of Bethlehem (later known as Bethlem, or Bedlam) was founded in 1247. Originally intended to provide accommodations for visiting clergy, it later became a hospital, which, like most other hospitals, cared for a certain number of mental patients. John Stow’s 1890 Survey of London stated that “. . . it was an Hospitall for distracted people. . . . In this place people that bee distraight in wits, are by the smite of their friends receyved and kept as afore, but not without charges. . . .” (Clay, 1909, p. 31). By the fourteenth century, the church had established hospitals throughout Western Europe, some with limited ac- commodation for the mentally ill. By the ﬁfteenth century, asylums for the mentally ill were founded. In the sixteenth century, hospitals established by religious groups began to be replaced by hospitals under secular management with the ob- jective of providing for the sick and needy at public expense. Afﬂuent lunatics were boarded out with clergymen or physi- cians, thus giving rise to the ﬁrst private “madhouses.” In England and Germany, insane persons considered not dan- gerous wore badges that signiﬁed they were entitled to seek alms. In England, at least as early as the sixteenth century, in- mates conﬁned in Bethlehem Hospital were released to beg when they were considered no longer likely to harm them- selves or others (Aubrey, 1813/1972).

Certain shrines became noted as centers for mental healing. In Belgium, during the eleventh and twelfth cen- turies, the shrine of St. Dymphna, which had been erected on the site of Dymphna’s martyrdom at Geel, became particu- larly known for miraculous cures of epileptics and other “lunatics.” From the second half of the fourteenth century, the shrine gradually became a place of pilgrimage speciﬁcally for mental patients.

Europe’s population approximately doubled during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Poverty conditions wors- ened and begging reached unprecedented levels, with large numbers organized into gangs. This exacerbated a growing resentment on the part of citizens expected to give charity to those who asked for it.Almsgiving came to be considered the promotion of a social evil and therefore immoral. Resources were uniﬁed under the governance of local or national au- thorities with the aim of eliminating begging by organizing public assistance. In France, a royal edict issued in 1656 by King Louis XIV ordained the conﬁnement of beggars, tramps, vagabonds, freethinkers, prostitutes, and the insane.
