# 40 Psychology as a Profession

year (one of which involved an innovative nationwide tele- phone conference call hookup involving over 50 sub- scribers), PP readers made crystal clear that they wanted articles that “provide practical advice and concrete sugges- tions that could be implemented in everyday practice set- tings, rather than merely placing the new ﬁndings within the context of the existing published literature (and then com- menting upon needed future research)” (DeLeon & Vanden- Bos, 2000, p. 595).

PP’s coverage included managed care, prescription privi- leges for psychologists, telehealth care, expanding roles for psychologists within the public policy (including legislative and administrative) arena, and behavioral health-service de- livery within primary care. Each of these issues has become of major concern to the profession and to the nation’s overall health-delivery system during the past decade. The reader- ship numbers (individual and institutional) steadily increased to approximately 8,000, making Professional Psychology the second most popular subscribed to APA journal.

In retrospect, the concerted effort to promulgate APA Practice Directorate efforts and relevant federal public health initiatives (e.g., those of the U.S. Surgeon General), although perhaps highly unusual for an APA journal, have had an impact in educating the ﬁeld regarding the changes evolving within their practice environments. Also, efforts to engage women and ethnic minorities in the editorial process (and thereby enrich the breadth of coverage) were particularly successful. The overall percentage of ethnic minority mem- bers in the APA at the time was 5.38%; in sharp contrast, in 1999 three of the ﬁve Professional Psychology associate edi- tors were female, and two associate editors were members of ethnic minorities. Further, 34.7% of the editorial board were female and 14.7% were ethnic minorities. This was a signiﬁ- cantly higher percentage of both categories of members than almost any other APA journal.