## Moral Management and the Association Model

Although Philippe Pinel is often credited with having initi- ated reform in institutions for the insane, agitation for reform had begun before him in many countries where general insti- tutional conditions had been deteriorating. In 1796, in re- sponse to widespread publicity generated by investigations of deplorable institution conditions, the English philanthropist, William Hack Tuke (1732–1822) persuaded the Society of Friends, to found the Retreat at York, planned as a therapeu- tic environment for mentally ill Quakers. Tuke instituted a system known as moral management, based on humanitarian care, moral (i.e., psychological) treatment, minimal restraint, and constructive activities.

The principles of moral management followed the con- cepts of eighteenth century moral philosophers, and the British concept of “associationism,” that psychological states and processes are sequentially determined by prior experi- ence and governed by the laws of association. Individual differences were explained as a consequence of differing par- ticular sequences of experiences, especially those of educa- tion. This view led to the optimistic belief that, based on proper education, it would be possible to plan a utopian soci- ety to achieve a universal social harmony.

Associationism owed a debt to John Locke (1632–1704) who, in his An Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1700) stated that all our ideas come from experience, ﬁrst from sensation and secondly from reﬂection upon the ideas furnished by sensation. Locke believed that in ordinary thought, one idea normally succeeds another by “natural” or rational connections. But, according to Locke, occasionally ideas become fortuitously associated by their contiguity, which explains how even reasonable people may come to hold unreasonable beliefs. Locke suggested that mental disorders are extreme instances of such unreasonable beliefs. Although this “association model” of psychopathology attributed sensory defects and abnormalities of movement to structural defects in the nervous system, it explained insanity—peculiar ideas, aberrant and incoherent thought processes, inappropriate emotions, and bizarre behaviors—as attributable to chains of irrational associations established by unfortunate learning situations. Sanity was considered a mat- ter of coherent, rational thought processes and of self-control, with the proper use of the will in the service of reason to control emotions and to guide action. (This view has a long

history—Plato held it and stressed the importance of inner governance.) Insanity results from unfortunate experiences, lack of discipline, and self-indulgence, hence it can be cured by reeducation (Plato, 1894a).

The association model provided the rationale for moral management. People affected with insanity, according to this view, should be removed from the pernicious inﬂuence of their homes and environments. They should be placed in a well-ordered social milieu designed to gently but ﬁrmly reha- bilitate them to the norms of society by an orchestration of therapeutic relearning experiences and provision of ﬁrm moral guidance in order restore mental health.

Small asylums, modeled on the York Retreat, sprang up in Britain and the United States. Managers were often physi- cians but also ministers, because insanity was attributed to psychological, not biological, causes. Persons who provided therapy for the insane had come to be known as “alienists” because they dealt with the problems of the alienated mind. Physical restraint and drugs were minimized in favor of kindly supervision and methods designed to reeducate and to instill appropriate behavior and self-discipline. Religious ser- vices were available, although patients who tended to reli- gious brooding might not be permitted to attend. Practitioners made little attempt to determine speciﬁc causes for the psy- chopathology. These measures, intended to induce habits of self-control, did not always work, as many patients were self- destructive or violent to others, which made restraint neces- sary at times.

William Battie (1704–1776), an English alienist and an earlyadvocateofmoralmanagement,wastheﬁrstinBritainto teachpsychiatrytomedicalstudents.InhisATreatiseon Mad- ness(1758),Battiemadeadistinctionbetween“original”(i.e., organic) and “consequential” (or acquired) madness. He be- lieved that mental disorder could be cured if patients were treatedinanasylumwheretheywereisolatedfromfamilyand friends, were attended by asylum staff rather than their own servants, and were managed by efforts to check their “unruly appetites” and divert their “ﬁxed imaginations.”

Philippe Pinel (1745–1826), the French alienist, founded a school of psychiatry at the Salpêtrière, where he trained a generation of psychiatrists, including Esquirol, who spread his ideas throughout Europe. Pinel has been considered the founder of modern psychiatry because he wrote the ﬁrst textbook of psychiatry, Traité Médico-Philosophique sur la Manie (Pinel, 1806). Pinel is also credited with having inau- gurated the humane care of the institutionalized insane, based the claim that he removed the chains from the insane patients at the Bicêtre. Weiner (1979) points out that, in fact, this was done by Pussin, who successfully replaced chains with straitjackets for incurable mental patients at Bicêtre. Pinel

subsequently had Pussin transferred to the Salpêtrière to help him reorganize the hospital.

In Italy, Vincenzo Chiarugi (1759–1820), superintendent of the hospital of Bonifazio published his three volumes, On Insanity and its Classiﬁcation (1793/1987). He issued hospital regulations in which he stated that mental patients should be given humanitarian care, restraint should be kept to a minimum, physicians should visit the wards daily, and a program of recreation and work should be initiated. He at- tributed insanity to congenital factors and to environmental inﬂuences. John Conolly (1794–1866), a British physician, practiced enlightened treatment methods for the mentally ill, including minimal use of restraints when he became res- ident physician at the Hanwell Asylum in 1839 (Scull, 1985).