data/clean/untitled__chunk2114.md, before:

# Industrial-Organizational Psychology

(1940) found that those reporting to work in industry did not call themselves industrial psychologists.

After World War II, employment opportunities outside of academia exploded. Each branch of the armed services cre- ated centers of research activity to continue the beneﬁts of World War II efforts. Anumber of psychological research or- ganizations, consulting ﬁrms, and university research centers were formed. Private industry continued to hire I-O psychol- ogists, and some companies established their own research groups. Areas of activities included job analysis and job eval- uation, salaries and wages, selection and placement, promo- tions, training, performance appraisal, job satisfaction and morale, counseling and guidance, labor relations, industrial hygiene, accidents and safety, and equipment design (e.g., Canter, 1948). In 1959, McCollom found at least 1,000 psy- chologists who were employed full-time industry in the United States (McCollom, 1959).

Thirty years later, Howard (1990) reported that of the 1,739 SIOP members who responded to her survey and were employedfull-time,36%wereemployedinacademicsettings and 57% reported working in industry, including private or- ganizations (21%), public organizations (7%), and consulting (29%). Eight percent responded that they worked in other set- tings (e.g., health service, research organizations). O’Connor and Ryan (1996) reported that of the 1,873 SIOP members who responded to their survey and were employed full-time, 39.1% indicated they worked in academic settings and 54.9% were employed in industry, including private organiza- tions (15.1%), public organizations (7.1%), and consulting (32.7%). Six percent responded that they worked in other set- tings (e.g., health/clinical). Recently, the SIOP Administra- tive Ofﬁce (Lee Hakel, personal communication, August 4, 2000) reported that of the 3,286 SIOP members (89.9% of total members) providing information about their employers, 36.1% were in academic positions, 17.1% held full-time posi- tions in private organizations, 6.3% were in public organiza- tions, 34.3% were in consulting, and 5.9% worked for health care or other employers (e.g., research organizations). Two notable shifts between 1990 and 2000 can be observed: (a) a decrease in the relative percentage of individuals employed in private organizations, and (b) an increase in the relative per- centage of individuals working in external consulting. One possible explanation is the outsourcing of work and down- sizing of private organizations (O’Connor & Ryan, 1996). Eminent I-O psychologists recently expressed concerns about the multitude of inexperienced consultants (C. H. Lawshe Jr., personal communication, June 1, 2000; Locke, 2000).

A prodigious number of employment opportunities in I-O psychology are apparent from examining the SIOP- APA Division 14 membership. This data, however, may

underestimate the actual number of individuals and positions because many I-O psychologists, especially practitioners, do not join APA or SIOP (Finch & Odoroff, 1939; Katzell & Austin, 1992). Aperusal of the job openings on the SIOPWeb site and published in The Industrial-Organizational Psychol- ogist (TIP) reveals a plethora of options, especially in the past decade. London and Moses (1990) observed that the role of I-O psychologists has evolved from that of technician- analyst to change agent or strategist.

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk2114.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 8de074dfdf5809677bb3241ef22075fcf2812e29
title: untitled
---
# Employment

When I-O psychology emerged, almost all psychologists were employed in academia, and psychologists who did ap- plied work did so on a part-time basis. Some academic psy- chologists pursued part-time consulting work to supplement their meager academic salaries (Goodwin, 1999). Others sought applied work because the number of psychology doctoral graduates quickly outgrew the number of positions in psychology departments and laboratories. Cattell (1946) estimated that as late as 1917 only 16 of the more than 300 members of APA were working primarily in the various applications of psychology. Napoli (1981) revealed no full- time I-O psychologists from 1913 through 1917; how- ever, there were individuals practicing I-O psychology, although their work was not labeled as such. In 1916, Walter Dill Scott was appointed professor of applied psychology at Carnegie Institute ofTechnology, the ﬁrst appointment by that title in academia (Landy, 1997).

After World War I, additional employment opportunities became available in academia, the military, government, pri- vate industry, and consulting organizations (e.g., the U.S. Civil Service Commission, Kaufman Department Store, Macy’s department store, Aetna Life Insurance, U.S. Rubber Company, Procter & Gamble, Milwaukee Electric Railway and Light Company) (Katzell & Austin, 1992). These oppor- tunities paved the way for employment of women psycholo- gists who faced barriers gaining employment in academia (Koppes, 1997). Katzell and Austin (1992) estimated that the total number of industrial psychologists by the end of the 1920s was approximately 50.

Employment in academia slowed during the 1930s, but employment in other areas improved. Between 1916 and 1938, the number of APA members in teaching positions in- creased ﬁvefold, from 233 to 1,299; however, the number of members in applied positions grew almost 29 times, from 24 to 694 (Finch & Odoroff, 1939). In 1940, Darley and Berdie

371

372
