data/clean/untitled__chunk2240.md, before:

# 404 Forensic Psychology

actions protesting the war in Vietnam. Social psychologists Jay Schulman and Richard Christie participated in several highly visible trials, beginning with the trial of several Catholic priests and nuns, antiwar protesters who became known as the “Harrisburg 7” (United States v. Ahmad, 1973) and continuing with the group of antiwar protesters known as the “Gainesville 8” (United States. v. Briggs, 1973). In the Harrisburg 7 trial, the social scientists, assisted by corps of volunteers, conducted a survey of community members to ﬁnd out which demographic variables (including age, educa- tion, religion, and gender) were associated with favorable at- titudes toward war protesters. They then rated each prospec- tive juror on a 1-to-5 scale in terms of favorability. The consultants also used “information networks” in the commu- nity, interviewing friends, neighbors, and employers, to gather more information about prospective jurors. In-court observations during voir dire provided the remaining infor- mation. The jury selection techniques based on this informa- tion were apparently successful, as the defendants were found not guilty. The researchers also carried out follow-up inter- views with jurors after the verdict had been reached (Christie, 1976; Schulman, Shaver, Colman, Emrick, & Christie, 1973). Another high-proﬁle trial that used social scientists for the defense was the trial of U.S. Attorney General John Mitchell and former secretary of commerce Maurice Stans (also the former head of Richard Nixon’s reelection committee) on charges of conspiracy to impede a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation of ﬁnancier Robert L. Vesco in return for a $200,000 cash contribution to Nixon’s reelection campaign. The defense was assisted in the selection of jurors by a public opinion survey, and the defendants were found not guilty. The survey was originally commissioned to sup- port a motion for change of venue from New York City. When that motion was denied, the attorneys realized that, with some work, the survey ﬁndings might provide guidance in the selection of trial jurors. Additional information was obtained from interviews with neighbors, friends, and em- ployers of the potential jurors (Christie, 1976).

Trial consultants are not licensed or certiﬁed in any state; therefore, anyone can proclaim himself or herself a trial con- sultant (Wrightsman, 2000). In the role of applied researcher, a trial consultant must follow professional standards for ethi- cal research, which, according to Wrightsman (2000, p. 31), have the “form of a list of moral imperatives: 1. Thou shall not fake data. 2. Thou shall not plagiarize. 3. Thou shall not make false conclusions on the basis of your data.” But given the fact that the trial consultant is an entrepreneur as well as a scientist, certain conﬂicts may arise. The AP-LS-sponsored Specialty Guidelines represent one attempt to provide general guidelines for dealing with such conﬂicts. One ambiguous

area concerns the sharing of data and ideas. It is a fundamen- tal principle within the scientiﬁc community that empirical data and scientiﬁc ideas are shared among researchers. How- ever, trial consultants, whether working alone or for an orga- nization, may guard their ideas closely. For example, one consulting ﬁrm trademarked the term “shadow jury” and informed other consultants and researchers that they were to cease using the term “shadow jury” in their own work (Wrightsman, 2000, p. 32).

While some see the use of trial consultants as an improve- ment, a way to go beyond relying simply on attorneys’stereo- types and prejudices, others see it in a less positive light. For example, Marcia Clark, lead prosecutor in the O. J. Simpson criminal trial, asserted: “As far as I’m concerned, they are creatures of the defense. They charge a lot, so the only people who can afford them are wealthy defendants in criminal trials or fat-cat corporations defending against class-action suits” (M. Clark, 1997, p. 138).

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk2240.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e3bd22503ed4ba6574807d3f765b61bd3605cde3
title: untitled
---
## New Roles for Psychologists: Trial Consultant

Psychologists acting as trial consultants (who also may be called litigation consultants or jury consultants) are hired most often in civil cases, where substantial amounts of money may be involved, although their use is increasing in criminal casesas well.Probably themostvisibletrial-consultantroleis as a jury consultant who attempts to aid one side to select a jury that is favorable to its position. The role of jury consul- tantsinthemurdertrialofO.J.Simpsonin1994–1995maybe the most widely publicized instance. Other activities of trial consultants include pretrial evaluation of attorneys’presenta- tions, mock-jury research, witness preparation, focus groups, and community surveys. They may advise their clients on im- portant areas such as identifying the major issues in the trial, preparing witnesses for testimony, and advising on jury selec- tion techniques. Consultants may also attempt to assist in de- veloping effective opening statements, cross-examination techniques, and closing statements, or in carrying out survey research to assesswhether theeffects of pretrial publicity may necessitate a change of venue. Trial consultants also may make presentations to continuing-education seminars for at- torneys that are intended to help them improve their court- room presentation skills or jury selection techniques.

The systematic involvement of psychologists in so-called scientiﬁc jury selection began in the early 1970s in a series of politically charged trials involving persons prosecuted for
