# Organizations and Activism 261

The division established a peer-reviewed journal, Psychol- ogy of Women Quarterly, in 1976.The journal has come to oc- cupy a visible and respected position. By 1999, it ranked 16th out of 109 psychology journals in terms of the number of timesitsarticleswerecitedinscholarlypublications.Division 35 also sponsors a program of formal and informal sessions and social events at the annual APA convention, continuing- education workshops on teaching and other topics, and a yearly midwinter conference. In addition, the division gives annual awards for excellence in feminist research, practice, and service. In 1993, the division organized the ﬁrst National Conference on Education and Training in Feminist Practice (deﬁned broadly to include research, writing, clinical prac- tice, clinical supervision, and leadership), held in Boston. Shaping the Future of Feminist Psychology (Worell & Johnson, 1997) is a summation of the conference.

Division 35 was one of the ﬁrst divisions that gave prior- ity to including psychologists from racial, ethnic, and other minority groups in its membership. It also took steps to assure that its leadership represented the diversity of women in psychology. The division has also worked to ensure that women from ethnic minority groups were considered for leadership positions in the APA. It has supported APA activi- ties that advance the interests of racial and ethnic minorities and their full representation within organized psychology. The division has had a Section on Women of Color for many years; among other activities, the section has promoted re- search on and by women of color.