---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: b72389d089bfa7c3b136f47245d6e167a4759f50
title: untitled
---
# Physiology and Perception 93

It is important to remember that Newton began with the belief system of a physicist and thus felt that the spectrum of colors that one got when passing light through a prism was a property of the glass. However, during his experimentation he was able to demonstrate that the spectrum could be re- combined into white light if he used a second prism oriented in the opposite direction. This would be an impossibility, since all that a glass should be able to do is to add chromatic aberrations. He soon determined that what the prism was doing was differentially bending the light inputs, with shorter wavelengths bent to a greater degree. This means that the re- sulting light output is nothing more than a smear of light with gradually differing wavelength composition from one end to the other. Since we see an array of spectral colors, it led him to the conclusion that color is a perceptual experience that depends on the wavelength of the light hitting the eye. White light is then simply the perception resulting from a mixture of all of the colors or wavelengths. Thus, we have another case where only when the physics fails to explain the phenomena observed does the scientist resort to a perceptual explanation. Other physicists would eventually contribute to knowl- edge of vision. Prominent among them would be Hermann Helmholtz, whose contributions to physics included develop- ment of the theory of conservation of energy and also under- standing of wave motions and vortexes. Another was Ernst Mach, whose contribution to ballistics formed an important basis for our understanding of the mechanics of ﬂight and who also would go on to study brightness perception in hu- mans. However, in their contributions, they would use not only the principles of physics but data from the newly emerg- ing ﬁelds of physiology and neurophysiology.
