# 444 Community Psychology

1950s and 1960s suggests bases for the interests of citizens, including psychologists, to create such a distinct enterprise as community psychology.

Embedded in the spirit of the times, the founding of com- munity psychology at the Swampscott Conference was sup- ported by at least two decades of exploration into community approaches to mental health service provision. The 20 years of scholarly and professional achievements illuminated the connections among social structure, health, and the delivery of community and preventive services. The founding and de- velopment of the ﬁeld both reﬂected and fostered a paradigm shift in the practice of psychology. Community psychology represented new ways to conceptualize mental illness and mental health and news ways to approach individual, sys- tems, and social changes. Speciﬁcally, shifts in conceptual orientation demanded that efforts to develop theories and preventive interventions be viewed through a nondeﬁcits model—a model of promoting strengths of communities and individual community members.

Wehaveframedtheﬁeld’sdevelopmentoftheoryandaction in terms of enhancing individual and community strengths. Community psychologists like Cowen and Weissberg have made promoting wellness through preventive interventions with an ecological orientation. Ecological theorists have also suggestedspeciﬁcconnectionstoastrengthsperspective,most recently in the ideas of Kelly (2000). Preventive intervention- ists are increasingly advocating for the inherent connection between this strengths perspective and their work (Seidman et al., 1999; Zimmerman, Ramirez-Valles, & Maton, 1999). Thethesisofthischapterliesinthemultiplewaysthattracesof theprincipleof theinterdependence of astrengths perspective with ecological concepts and preventive interventions have deﬁned a major core of the work implemented throughout the ﬁeld’shistory.

The importance of the strengths perspective in community psychology is illustrated by the number of community psy- chologists who have commented on the challenge of deve- loping a competence approach in community research and practice. At the symposium celebrating the 20th anniversary of the ﬁeld, Kelly (1987) echoed the Swampscott Conference participants’articulation of a need for a broader deﬁnition of health and well-being. Strother (1987) discussed how the tone at the time of Swampscott had allowed for an emphasis on the maintenance of health rather than a sole focus on illness. Klein (1987) repeated some of Lindemann’s thoughts by em- phasizing that prevention or mental health promotion, the most cost-effective early treatments, would result from fo- cused efforts to enhance individuals’natural support systems. Also during this time, several chapters in the Annual Review of Psychology focused attention on the issue of bringing a

strengths perspective into preventive interventions (Gesten & Jason,1987;Iscoe&Harris,1984;Kelly,Snowden,&Munoz, 1977; Levine,Toro, & Perkins, 1993).

Considering the ecological perspective as described by Kelly, Trickett, and colleagues and actualized by other noted community psychologists, we see an inherent connection between a strengths perspective and viewing the person in context. As the strengths orientation prescribes that we attend to the functional roles played by individuals and community structures, so does ecologically valid work that explicitly acknowledges the interdependent relationship between com- munity citizens and the multiple levels of their environments. Furthermore, the link between a strengths perspective and ecological thinking is evident in the ﬁeld’s translation of research into action via preventive interventions and action research. Community psychologists have illustrated such a connection through interventions that focus on building com- munity capacity or promoting individual strengths as strate- gies to prevent social problems or disease.

We hope that by highlighting some of the social events and movements that framed the emergence of the ﬁeld, future scholars can build from this enterprise. The future of com- munity psychology is bound not only by its social, political, and professional contexts but also by its past. Understanding the conﬂuence of historical events and processes that con- tributed to the evolution of community psychology can provide us with the insight and knowledge to continue col- laborative research with communities that ecologically assesses problems and competencies in efforts to prevent social problems and promote wellness.