# Structural and Functional Psychologies

Oswald Külpe’s method of systematic introspection had a very strong proponent in Edward Bradford Titchener at Cornell University. Titchener had become interested in Wundt’s psychology while studying philosophy and physiol- ogy at Oxford University. He translated the third edition of Wundt’s Gründzüge into English and, when he could ﬁnd no one in England with whom to study the new science, went to Leipzig to complete his doctorate with Wundt in 1892. English universities were unreceptive to the new psychology; Titchener accepted a professorship at Cornell University, where he remained until his death in 1927.

Titchener presented himself as Wundt’s representative in North America, but his psychology was not Wundt’s volun- tarism (Leahey, 1981; Danziger, 1990). Titchener’s view of mind was inﬂuenced by the English philosophy of John Locke and his heirs that he had studied at Oxford. The British philosophers viewed mind as a recipient of stimulation: Mental content was whatever had entered mind through the senses. The purpose of the study of mind was to understand how complex mental experience and function could arise from combinations of these elements. Laws of association, by which elements combined, played a signiﬁcant role in understanding how mind grew from sensory elements.

Similarly, mind was, for Titchener, composed of elements that he identiﬁed as sensations, images, and affections. Sen- sation was the primary experience resulting from stimulation of the senses, images were complex representations that carried thought, and feelings were the elements of which emotions were comprised. Through the direct systematic introspection of consciousness under laboratory conditions, Titchener pursued three goals: the reduction of conscious experience to its basic elements, determining how the ele- ments were connected to form complex perceptions, and identifying the underlying physiological processes. The ﬁrst of these goals provided the primary focus of research at the Cornell laboratory, as the elements were themselves analyzed for their attributes (which, in a later version of the system, became the new elements of consciousness; see Evans, 1972). Pursuit of the other goals was secondary because they depended upon the successful completion of the ﬁrst.

The subject of psychology, Titchener argued, was the understanding of the human, adult, normal, generalized mind through the use of introspection; only after psychology had completed that task could the nonhuman, child, abnormal, or individual mind be understood. For Titchener, psychology needed to emulate physics, with its pursuit of the analysis of matter into the smaller units of which it was composed. Titchener stood for rigorous experimental pursuit of the ele- ments of mind, pursued for their own sake and not for any potential application. He disparaged “functional psychology” as essentially the “mind in use” approach of the older, dis- carded philosophical psychology.

An early response to Titchener’s postulates for his struc- tural psychology came from John Dewey (1859–1952), chair of the Department of Philosophy, which subsumed psychol- ogy and pedagogy, at the University of Chicago. Dewey per- ceived that the new method of laboratory experiment would free the older barren mental philosophy from the theological and philosophical constraints of its past and open the way for a useful psychology that would help resolve problems of the asylum, the classroom, and other practical affairs (Dewey,

1884). He facilitated the establishment of a laboratory at the University of Michigan before moving to Chicago. In 1896, Dewey argued against reductionist approaches to the study of consciousness and for a functional analysis and understand- ing of mind (Dewey, 1896). A functional approach to mind was embedded in the nineteenth century mental philosophy taught in American colleges (Fuchs, 2000a) and its develop- ment at the University of Chicago was inﬂuenced by pre- Chicago Associations among Dewey and others (Raphelson, 1973).

James R. Angell, a graduate of the University of Michigan and a student of psychology there, built on Dewey’s approach in his presidential address to the American Psychological Association in 1906 (Angell, 1907), in his successful text- books (e.g., Angell, 1905), and from his position as Professor of Psychology at the University of Chicago. Functional psy- chology dealt not with mental elements as its primary focus but with mental operations; the role of consciousness in help- ing to adapt an organism to its environment involved psy- chology in a concern for mind and body relationships (Angell, 1907, p. 86). Functionalism was interested in the uses of consciousness and its role in guiding behavior; it was profoundly practical and reformist. Psychology and other so- cial sciences were useful to a variety of educational and social reforms promoted during the progressive era (Fitzpatrick, 1990; Milar, 1999).

Angell’s approach to psychology encompassed the broad range of interests and methods that had developed in psy- chology since 1879 and reﬂected the inﬂuence that evolu- tionary theory exerted on psychology in the United States. The science of mind was pursued in the laboratory; mind was its subject matter, and many methods were available for its study. Psychophysical experiments, research on the connec- tions between physiology, especially the nervous system, and mental processes, and direct observation of others, including children and animals, provided data that could supplement the results of introspection under laboratory conditions (Angell, 1905). The use of a variety of methods would, in Angell’s view, supplement the results of the direct observa- tions of mind that introspection provides. Functional psy- chology was interested in how mind worked (i.e., how it functioned) and on its functional relation to the physiological substrate (i.e., on what did mind depend) and its purpose (i.e., its use or function) and was less concerned the content of mind.

Mary Whiton Calkins (1863–1930) attempted to reconcile the differences between the structural and functional psy- chologies by proposing a psychology of the self that possesses both conscious contents and mental functions. Calkins had begun her study of psychology unofﬁcially at