# SETTING THE STAGE

In a later section, we describe work on women and gender from earlier eras of psychology. As we note, there was a lack of support for such work, and those who engaged in it found their efforts difﬁcult to sustain. The creation of a ﬁeld of study as it exists today had to await two developments: a crit- ical mass of scholars devoted to questions of gender and the political impetus of the second wave of feminism, which emerged in the 1960s.

Until the late 1960s, graduate programs in psychology admitted few women. Most were admitted to masters degree programsbutnottodoctoralprograms.Themoreselectivethe school, thefewer womenwere grantedaccess.Themorepres- tigious the specialty within psychology, the more obstacles to women’s participation were created. Women were mostly channeled into applied work in child psychology, school psychology, and counseling. Training requirements and the typical academic career trajectory suited men’s life pattern; they were not readily compatible with the family and domes- tic responsibilities that women were expected to shoulder.

For those women who managed to complete advanced training in psychology, occupational barriers remained. Women who entered academia were likely to be pigeonholed in adjunct appointments and teaching positions, preserving the prestigious and lucrative research positions for men. Women were overrepresented in departments and institutions where research was not possible.Women who entered applied ﬁelds, such as clinical and counseling psychology, also faced occupational discrimination and invidious stereotypes. In clinical psychology, most doctoral-level therapists were men. Womenwhowere therapists hadto confront theaccepted wis- dom that male therapists were more competent and more pre- pared to deal with serious clinical disorders. Thus, a common pattern was that of a male therapist assisted by a female cotherapist.Also, many believed that female therapists lacked the authority and stature to work effectively with male clients. This stereotype limited women’s access to VeteransAdminis- tration hospitals and thus to many internship opportunities for clinical trainees. Ironically, a substantial number of women had made important contributions to clinical theory and prac- tice, as well as to the ﬁeld of psychological assessment, dur- ing the 1940s and 1950s. Nonetheless, as documented in a number of surveys, invidious judgments about women’s abil- ities as clinicians persisted well into the 1970s.