---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: cfdd7628a812ae3e4ecb154ff4f8e59824b39ba4
title: untitled
---
# 122 Cognition and Learning

cause). The great attraction of mediational theory was that it gave behaviorists interested in human cognitive processes a theoretical language shorn of mentalistic connotations (Osgood, 1956), and during the 1950s and early 1960s medi- ational theories dominated the study of human cognition. However, once the concept of information became available, mediational theorists—and certainly their students—became information processing theorists (Leahey, 2000).

EdwardChaceTolman’sCognitiveBehaviorism. E.C. Tolman (1886–1959) consistently maintained that he was a behaviorist, and in fact wrote a classic statement of method- ological behaviorism as a psychological program (Tolman, 1935). However, he was a behaviorist of an odd sort, as he (Tolman, 1959) and S-R psychologists (Spence, 1948) recog- nized, being inﬂuenced by gestalt psychology and the neore- alists (see below). Although it is anachronistic to do so, the best way to understand Tolman’s awkward position in the GoldenAgeisthroughthedistinctionbetweenproceduraland declarative learning. Ebbinghaus, Thorndike, Hull, Guthrie, Spence, and the entire S-R establishment studied only proce- dural learning. They did not have the procedural/declarative distinction available to them, and in any case thought that consciousness—which formulates and states declarative knowledge—was irrelevant to the causal explanation of behavior. S-R theories said learning came about through the manipulation of physical stimuli and material rewards and punishments. Animals learn, and can, of course, never say why. Even if humans might occasionally ﬁgure out the con- tingencies of reinforcement in asituation, S-R theory said that they were simply describing the causes of their own behavior the way an outside observer does (Skinner, 1957). As Thorndike had said, reward and punishment stamp in or stamp out S-R connections; consciousness had nothing to do with it.

Tolman, on the other hand, wanted to study cognition— declarative knowledge in the traditional sense—but was straitjacketed by the philosophical commitments of behavior- ism and the limited conceptual tools of the 1930s and 1940s. Tolman anticipated, but could never quite articulate, the ideas of later cognitive psychology.

Tolman’s theory and predicament are revealed by his “Dis- proof of the Law of Effect” (Tolman, Hall, & Bretnall, 1932). In this experiment, human subjects navigated a pegboard maze, placing a metal stylus in the left or right of a series of holes modeling the left-right choices of an animal in a multi- ple T-maze. There were a variety of conditions, but the most revealing was the “bell-right-shock” group, whose subjects received an electric shock when they put the stylus in the cor- rect holes. According to the Law of Effect these subjects

should not learn the maze because correct choices were fol- lowed by pain, but they learned at the same rate as other groups.While this result seemed to disprove the law of effect, its real signiﬁcance was unappreciated because the concept of information had not yet been formulated (see below). In Tolman’s time, reinforcers (and punishers) were thought of only in terms of their drive-reducing or affective properties. However, they possess informational properties, too. A re- ward is pleasant and may reduce hunger or thirst, but rewards typically provide information that one has made the correct choice, while punishers are unpleasant and ordinarily convey that one has made the wrong choice. Tolman’s “bell-right- shock” group pried apart the affective and informational qual- ities of pain by making pain carry the information that the subjecthadmadetherightchoice.Tolmanshowed—butcould not articulate—that it’s the informational value of behavioral consequences that cause learning, not their affective value. Nevertheless, Tolman tried to offer a cognitive theory of learning with his concept of cognitive maps (Tolman, 1948). S-R theorists viewed maze learning as acquiring a series of left-right responses triggered by the stimuli at the various choice points in the maze. Against this, Tolman proposed that animals and humans acquire a representation—a mental map—of the maze that guides their behavior. Tolman and his followers battled Hullians through the 1930s, 1940s, and into the 1950s, generating a mass of research ﬁndings and theo- retical argument. Although Tolman’s predictions were often vindicated by experimental results, the vague nature of his theory and his attribution of thought to animals limited his theory’s impact (Estes et al., 1954).
