---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c0e4467fcccc4adc7796d462d3e89cafa24a1c6d
title: untitled
---
## Emergence of Forensic Psychology as a Recognized Subﬁeld 399

The way that forensic psychology is conceptualized will have a strong impact on the way graduate training programs are set up (e.g., see Bersoff et al., 1997; Ogloff, Tomkins, & Bersoff, 1996: Roesch, Grisso, & Poythress, 1986). As the twenty-ﬁrstcenturybegan,therewereatleastﬁvejointJD/PhD programs at universities in the United States. But while joint degreeprogramsmayrepresentthemostdirectroutetoachiev- ing integration of psychology of law (Tomkins & Ogloff, 1990), such programs require from students massive amounts of time, effort, and tuition costs (to two schools within the uni- versity). Psycholegal scholars continue to debate whether it is necessary to achieve terminal degrees in both psychology and in law in order to be a competent psycholegal scholar, or whether this represents an instance of overkill. Another issue involves whether there are sufﬁcient numbers of well-trained scholars to staff joint-degree programs or general psychology- law programs. Although such broad-based training seems to presuppose the presence of several faculty members with var- iedknowledge,ithasbeenpointedoutthatitisa“coldfactthat most departments have only one, if any, faculty member inter- ested in social science applications to law” (Bersoff et al., 1997, p. 1304). Nevertheless, as has been stated elsewhere (Brigham, 1999), there is a growing need for well-trained psycholegal scholars to conduct policy development work, to train law-enforcement personnel, lawyers, and judges, to work on legislative committee staffs, and, as we discuss below, to work in various phases of the legal process (e.g., jury selection, expert testimony, trial consultation, dispute resolution).

As noted above, most training programs that call them- selves “forensic psychology” are housed in clinical psychol- ogy graduate programs. Presumably, these programs are oriented toward applying the scientist-practitioner model to psycholegal issues. A survey by a working group from the Villanova Conference found that slightly over half of clinical internship programs offered major forensic rotations, mostly inpatient experiences with adult criminal forensic popula- tions. Turning to the postdoctoral level, the working group was able to identify only about a dozen postdoctoral forensic training programs. They noted, though, that these programs should be oriented toward producing the future leaders in (clinical) forensic psychology (Bersoff et al., 1997).

Elsewhere, Brigham (1999) argued that it appears neces- sary to maintain two, or perhaps three, categories to describe psychologists involved in legal matters.Atypology suggested by Heilbrun (in Brigham, 1999) includes three basic areas: clinical forensic psychology, experimental (researchers who consult with attorneys and/or give expert testimony in their research specialty), and legal psychologists (those with train- ing in law and social science who work on broad psycholegal
