---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 98e9e6c93405ef713e06721d3b8a63780a9ac8cb
title: untitled
---
# 404 Forensic Psychology

actions protesting the war in Vietnam. Social psychologists Jay Schulman and Richard Christie participated in several highly visible trials, beginning with the trial of several Catholic priests and nuns, antiwar protesters who became known as the “Harrisburg 7” (United States v. Ahmad, 1973) and continuing with the group of antiwar protesters known as the “Gainesville 8” (United States. v. Briggs, 1973). In the Harrisburg 7 trial, the social scientists, assisted by corps of volunteers, conducted a survey of community members to ﬁnd out which demographic variables (including age, educa- tion, religion, and gender) were associated with favorable at- titudes toward war protesters. They then rated each prospec- tive juror on a 1-to-5 scale in terms of favorability. The consultants also used “information networks” in the commu- nity, interviewing friends, neighbors, and employers, to gather more information about prospective jurors. In-court observations during voir dire provided the remaining infor- mation. The jury selection techniques based on this informa- tion were apparently successful, as the defendants were found not guilty. The researchers also carried out follow-up inter- views with jurors after the verdict had been reached (Christie, 1976; Schulman, Shaver, Colman, Emrick, & Christie, 1973). Another high-proﬁle trial that used social scientists for the defense was the trial of U.S. Attorney General John Mitchell and former secretary of commerce Maurice Stans (also the former head of Richard Nixon’s reelection committee) on charges of conspiracy to impede a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation of ﬁnancier Robert L. Vesco in return for a $200,000 cash contribution to Nixon’s reelection campaign. The defense was assisted in the selection of jurors by a public opinion survey, and the defendants were found not guilty. The survey was originally commissioned to sup- port a motion for change of venue from New York City. When that motion was denied, the attorneys realized that, with some work, the survey ﬁndings might provide guidance in the selection of trial jurors. Additional information was obtained from interviews with neighbors, friends, and em- ployers of the potential jurors (Christie, 1976).

Trial consultants are not licensed or certiﬁed in any state; therefore, anyone can proclaim himself or herself a trial con- sultant (Wrightsman, 2000). In the role of applied researcher, a trial consultant must follow professional standards for ethi- cal research, which, according to Wrightsman (2000, p. 31), have the “form of a list of moral imperatives: 1. Thou shall not fake data. 2. Thou shall not plagiarize. 3. Thou shall not make false conclusions on the basis of your data.” But given the fact that the trial consultant is an entrepreneur as well as a scientist, certain conﬂicts may arise. The AP-LS-sponsored Specialty Guidelines represent one attempt to provide general guidelines for dealing with such conﬂicts. One ambiguous

area concerns the sharing of data and ideas. It is a fundamen- tal principle within the scientiﬁc community that empirical data and scientiﬁc ideas are shared among researchers. How- ever, trial consultants, whether working alone or for an orga- nization, may guard their ideas closely. For example, one consulting ﬁrm trademarked the term “shadow jury” and informed other consultants and researchers that they were to cease using the term “shadow jury” in their own work (Wrightsman, 2000, p. 32).

While some see the use of trial consultants as an improve- ment, a way to go beyond relying simply on attorneys’stereo- types and prejudices, others see it in a less positive light. For example, Marcia Clark, lead prosecutor in the O. J. Simpson criminal trial, asserted: “As far as I’m concerned, they are creatures of the defense. They charge a lot, so the only people who can afford them are wealthy defendants in criminal trials or fat-cat corporations defending against class-action suits” (M. Clark, 1997, p. 138).
