# xiv Foreword

in the many topic areas into which contemporary psychology may be compartmentalized. And this new account of an old program is broadened by the recognition that modern psy- chology acknowledges that it is an applied technology as well as an academic, “scientiﬁc” discipline, in which the preserva- tion and acquisition of knowledge about the subject matter is an end in itself.

History of Psychology is intended to be graduate-level text or even appropriate at an advanced undergraduate level. It may also serve as a resource for those seeking a historical overview of a number of the scientiﬁc and professional areas in the vast ﬁeld of psychology.

The editor of History of Psychology has deﬁned the ﬁeld by specifying that each chapter can be seen as a distinct, iden- tiﬁable, quasi-independent area of knowledge or advocacy. Each topic may well have separate societies or interest groups, with newsletters, prizes, officers, journals, and so forth—the usual structures that manage to deﬁne the bound- aries and content of an area.

This greater summary of the history-of-psychology- in-our-times begins with two chapters that define the current ﬁeld and its discontents: psychology-as-a-science and psychology-as-a-profession. Then, in media res the content of psychology is presented in the early chapters, which echo the classical topics, as in the headings of every introductory textbook. Following are a reﬂection more of contemporary psychology-as-application than as content areas. There is overlap, of course, since no area of application is without its support in content. In the later chapters, the shift is from ap- plication in the public good to the problems of the profes- sional psychologist and international developments. Finally the last chapter on professional organizations is a description of the ﬁeld of psychology from the inside, as issues of afﬁli- ation and identiﬁcation are described.

It is apparent to the editor and the authors, that the division of pure versus applied, academic versus guild, and so forth break down, and that psychologists work both in an area of investigation and one of application. The selection of topics has been guided by both classical and innovative standards. While the chapters dealing with substantive psychological topics (theoretical and empirical) are familiar selections, it is the two introductory chapters and latter ones that are inno- vative and reﬂect the new world of psychology, in contrast to that shown in older histories (Boring, Murphy, etc.) or the whole-of-psychology handbooks.

The selection of authors and their instructions in proceed- ing with their tasks are also innovative and worth noticing. Several of the authors are universally recognized as noted scientists and have been leaders in their respective ﬁelds for years. But a number are young and drawn from the pool of new historians by choice. Many psychologists are unaware that there is a whole cohort of (mostly young) psychologists whose involvement in the history of psychology is not just a hobby or peripheral interest. These people are committed to psychology as their major discipline but are also fully committed to the study and writing of good histories of psy- chology. The era when history was taught by the oldest or youngest member of the department by default is long past, and now there is a cadre of skilled, sophisticated schol- ars who are committed to creating a quality history of psychology.

When the authors were selected and had accepted the in- vitation to contribute, they were given a great deal of freedom to write a history of their topical area in their own manner, organization, and time scheme, but they were all requested that after being given freedom to organize, emphasize, and structure their subject matter they were also requested to ad- here to a similar length and style and to serve more recent (twentieth century) content as well as more remote temporal themes.

In other words, the editor asked the authors to be obser- vant of a minimum number of restrictions (designed to make the volume and the reader’s task easier) while at the same time allowing the authors the intellectual freedom to deal with their subject matter as they wished. To these ends the au- thors have striven to present a text which may well serve as a milestone in the continuing quest to document our growing and diverse ﬁeld of psychology.