---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: c19adb2a13cb85474060426572157e2815e83f3d
title: untitled
---
# 240 Social Psychology

Shelley Taylor (1998), for example, addresses variations on the “social being in social psychology” and advances made in social psychology in past decades. On the social being, Taylor attends to social psychology’s more diverse subject pool beyond a database of college students (e.g., Sears, 1986), and the area’s more complex views of persons who “actively construe social situations” and of social contexts as themselves invariably complex. While the changes she notes seem more consonant with social construction than with pos- itivist assumptions, Taylor nonetheless pursues the conven- tionalist line, albeit morphing it to accommodate ideas on “context,” “social construction,” “multiple effects,” and “multiple processors.” One cannot help but hear inﬂuences from postmodernist debate on the nature of the “subject,” in- cluding an implied reﬂexive relation ostensibly not amenable to quantiﬁcation (Hayles). Seemingly at odds with positivist assumptions and with liberal humanist notions of the subject, Taylor’s review everywhere evidences how science in social psychology undergoes transformation itself. Her view of sci- entiﬁc social psychology contrasts as much with earlier overviews of social psychology in which the methodology was assumed unchanged and unaltered by cultural historical conditions even as social psychology’s “insights” were to “gradually work their way into our cultural wisdom” (Jones, 1985, p. 100) as it does with feminist and critical psycholo- gists who explicitly engage “transformative projects” (Morawski, 1994). As Morawski writes, such “everyday his- tories of science, especially of psychology, presume that em- piricism means much the same thing as it did ﬁfty, or one hundred ﬁfty, years ago” (p. 50), relying, as they do, on lin- ear, transhistorical “narratives of progression or stability.” But changes in the language of these narratives and of the views of the subject as of science, culture, and so on betray the storyline of these narratives. As we have attempted to show, the history of social psychology, its scientiﬁc practices, and reigning views of the human have been anything but sta- ble, linear or progressive, or science-as-usual for those who claim the conventional or alternative practices of social psy- chological research.

It is well worth keeping Morawki’s words on history and historiographical practices in mind as they hold across our theoretical, methodological, epistemological, and onto- logical differences. Whether practitioners of social construc- tion (e.g., Gergen, 1994); discourse social psychology (e.g., Potter & Wetherell, 1987; Wilkinson & Kitzinger, 1995); feminist social psychology (Wilkinson, 1996; Sherif; Morawski; Bayer); Russian/Soviet social psychology (Strickland, 1998); or conventional social psychology, we are engaged in what is most usefully thought of as transformative

projects. Ian Hacking (1999) writes of this in the sense of a “looping effect”— “classiﬁcations that, when known by people or by those around them, and put to work in institu- tions, change the ways in which individuals experience them- selves—and may even lead people to evolve their feelings and behavior in part because they are so classiﬁed” (p. 104). Ideas on looping effects hold as well for the individual–social world divide where the framing itself may show its historical wear and tear as much as Graham Richards writes in his his- tory of race and psychology of the coherence of the “nature- nurture” polarity “crumb[ling] after 1970” and that even the “‘interactionist’position must now be considered too crude a formulation” given how the “notion of them being distin- guishable . . . has been undermined” (pp. 252–253). Likewise for the individual–social world dualism, which having been reformulated and remade carries its own history of social psychology, from splitting subjects off from the world through to moving the “social” more and more into our sub- jects’ interior life and to bringing past psychology into cur- rent phenomena (e.g., MacIntyre, 1985). Nikolas Rose (1990, 1992) reverses typical construals of the “social” in social psy- chology by placing psychology in the social arena, where it serves as a relay concept between politics, ethics, economics, and the human subject. Here the social is as much a part of in- dividual subjectivity as notions of political and democratic life have themselves come to be understood in psychological ways. For Rose (1992) the matter is less about the “social construction of persons” and more attuned to how “if we have become profoundly psychological beings . . . we have come to think, judge, console, and reform ourselves accord- ing to psychological norms of truth” (p. 364).

Social psychology’s cornerstone of the individual–social world relation has itself therefore undergone remakings, ones that must be considered, especially where we are oft-tempted to line up social psychologists as falling on one or the other side of the divide, switching positions, or indeed lamenting the loss of the social in areas such as small group social psy- chology or the ﬁeld itself. Indeed, Floyd Allport’s (1961) move to the individual–group as the “master” problem in so- cial psychology as much as Ivan Steiner’s (1986) lament of his failed prediction of a “groupy” social psychology might usefully be rethought in terms of the changing nature of the dualism itself, signiﬁed perhaps by talk of relations, commu- nication, information processing, and perception in years past (Bayer & Morawski, 1991), and by the terms of voice, sto- ries, local histories, and discourses in matters of gender, race, and culture today.

Insofar as the history of social psychology is tied up in the history of this dualism, and insofar as wider critical

discussions on the “crisis” have served to recast matters of epistemology within disciplines, then we might well take this one step further to consider how the timeworn narrative of a sociological social psychology versus a psychological social psychology simply no longer makes good sense—historical or otherwise. Social psychology in the twenty-ﬁrst century is perhaps no more uniform than it was in the mid-1950s, or at its outset, but this diversity of interests and approaches, including discursive, feminist, sociocultural, hermeneutic, ecological, critical, narrative, and the newer technocultural studies, is part and parcel of this working out of boundaries and problematics. To overlook this history is to run into the same trouble of assuming social psychology weathered storms of debate and change, arriving in the twenty-ﬁrst cen- tury stronger but basically unchanged. Or, conversely, that social psychology’s history is one of increasing emphasis on the individual, going from social to asocial, and a narrowing of deﬁned scientiﬁc practices (Samelson). But as Franz Samelson (2000) found, neither of these histories sufﬁces, for each eclipses the broader and more local engaging questions. And, as Jill Morawski (2000) writes in her assessment of “theory biographies,” few of psychology’s leading lights seemed to conﬁne themselves to some hypothetical, tidy box of social psychological theory and research. Seen histori- cally, their work addressed connections of theory and practice, theory and value, and theory and social control con- sequences, however intended or unintended. Equally signif- icant is the irony Samelson ﬁnds in textbook and “success” histories’ omission of the “fact that some of their respected heroes and innovators later in life found their old approaches wanting and forswore them totally, at the same time as novices in the ﬁeld were being taught to follow in the old (abandoned) footsteps” (p. 505). Such is the case of Leon Festinger, who, pursuing questions on human life, turned to historical inquiry via other ﬁelds. Further, the history of social psychology, as Smith notes, gives the lie to social psy- chology losing sight of or turning away from that broader project, whether expressly or not, of “larger intellectual difﬁ- culties fac[ing] the human sciences” and of being “funda- mentally a political and moral as well as scientiﬁc subject” (Smith, p. 747).

Social psychology has never been quite as contained, narrow, asocial, or apolitical as construed in some of its his- torical narratives or reviews. Inasmuch as social psychology sought to engage its lifeworld of social meanings and doings, it can hardly be thought of as residing anywhere but in the very midst of these self- and world-making practices. Its the- ories, “like life elsewhere,” writes Morawski (2000), were “born of cultural contradictions, ﬁxations, opportunities, and
