# 544 Professional Organizations

In 1988, the American Psychological Society (APS) was founded as the major alternative to the APA. The APS was widely perceived as a fundamental split between those psy- chologists whose primary identity was that of psychological scientist and those who thought of themselves as primarily professional practitioners. The reality was much more com- plex than that. The reorganization of the APA during the war gave applied interests a greater voice and created the possibil- ity of schism within the APA. The infusion of large sums of money from various federal agencies for psychological re- search and training, especially clinical training, raised the stakes over psychology’s identity. The once-small ﬁeld of clinical psychology grew out of all proportion to the rest of psychology and soon threatened the traditional centers of power in the APA. Tension between scientists and practition- ers grew in the decades after World War II as clinical psy- chologists became increasingly interested in independent practice and all the necessary accoutrements that accompany such practice: licensure, third-party payment, and the like. In the 1970s, practitioners began to gain greater inﬂuence in the APA governance structure and by the 1980s were ascendant. Some scientists and academics who felt threatened by these changes proposed that the APA be reorganized into a looser structure that provided more autonomy for academic psychol- ogists. When the reorganization plan failed in 1988, a large number of scientists/academics decided to form an alternative Initially organization devoted to psychological science. called the Assembly for Scientiﬁc and Applied Psychology, the group incorporated in 1988 as theAPS with 450 founding members. That number grew rapidly to over 5,000 members within 6 months, and by 2000 the membership was approxi- mately 10,000. Many members of APS have also maintained membership in the APA. Although tension between the two groups ran high in the ﬁrst years after the split, there was a steady accommodation to each other through the 1990s.

It has been more common, however, for new organizations to form simply around a specialty interest in psychological science. These groups proliferated in the last decades of the twentieth century and are too numerous to list here. The reader is referred to the World Wide Web sites of the Federa- tion of Behavioral, Psychological, and Cognitive Societies (www.thefederationonline.org) and the International Union of Psychological Sciences (www.iupsys.org) for links to many of these societies.