data/clean/untitled__chunk3022.md, before:

## The International Council of Psychologists

The National Council of Women Psychologists (NCWP) began in December 1941 as an organization to promote the interests of women psychologists in the United States. The name was changed to the International Council of Women Psychologists after World War II and to the current Interna- tional Council of Psychologists in 1959.

As American psychologists began to prepare for national service in the event of U.S. involvement in the war, women psychologists felt excluded. One stated that she and her women colleagues grew frustrated with male psychologists who either wanted to go on “reading papers on rat reactions and retroactive inhibitions as though psychology had no concern with a world already launched into inferno” or who sought to exclude women from war work (Schwesinger, 1943, p. 298). Women psychologists were repeatedly coun- seled by male psychologists in leadership positions in orga- nized psychology to wait patiently. Finally, when it became clear that nothing was going to be done for them, a group of 50 women voted to organize as the National Council of Women Psychologists (Capshew & Laszlo, 1986). By June 1942, membership had grown to 240 women PhD psycholo- gists (Schwesinger, 1943). The NCWP was successful in gaining its members useful civilian roles in wartime service. NWCP members provided a variety of educational, assess- ment, and placement services. However, the NWCP was un- able to signiﬁcantly increase the number of women faculty members, even though there was a chronic shortage of quali- ﬁed male professors of psychology.

Membership in the NCWP declined after the war. Rather than disband, its leaders decided to add an international focus and took a new name, the International Council of Women Psychologists (Carrington, 1952). The ICWP developed an extensive educational and support role for psychologists around the world. Included among these activities were sup- port for displaced psychologists and the publication of a book, Women Psychologists: Their Work and Training and Professional Opportunities (1950), meant to encourage young women to become psychologists.

the promotion of women in psychology remained the ﬁrst goal of the ICWP. The 1950s was an era that was not sympathetic to women’s issues. Leading male psychologists were frequently unsympathetic, if not hostile, to women as professional colleagues (e.g., Boring, 1951). One departmental chairman stated that if “women were really capable, nothing could hold them back and that any effort to support women psychologists just because they were women was a mistake” (cited in Walsh, 1985, p. 21). Leaders of the ICWP sought divisional membership in the American Psychological Association (APA) as a means to gain a voice for women’s issues in psychology but were repeatedly turned down by the APA leadership. In 1959, after considerable discussion, the ICWP changed its constitution to allow men to become members and its name to the International Council of Psychologists. Still, the APA would not admit the organization to divisional status (Walsh, 1985).

However,

Commit message:

chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/untitled__chunk3022.md, after:

---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: e2b440404413ebd6d26367ca4b69096828cc772c
title: untitled
---
## The International Association of Applied Psychology

The International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP) is the oldest international association of individual psycholo- gists. The archives of the IAAP were destroyed during World War II, so the full history of the early years of the association cannot be told. What is known is that in 1920, Edouard Claparède (1873–1940) and Pierre Bovet (1878–1965), of the Rousseau Institute in Geneva, Switzerland, organized the ﬁrst International Conference of Psychotechnics Applied to Vocational Guidance. Despite its impressive title, there were fewer than 50 conference participants. The conference was hastily arranged to coincide with the annual training course

in vocational guidance offered by the Swiss Association for Vocational Guidance and Apprentice Welfare (Gundlach, 1998). Vocational guidance was a new area for psychologists and educators in Europe and the United States. The concept was pioneered in the United States by attorney Frank Parsons (1854–1908) and experimental psychologist Hugo Münster- berg (1863–1916). In Europe, it formed a part of the bur- geoning ﬁeld of psychotechnics, in which the apparatus of experimental psychology laboratories were used to test voca- tional aptitude and to assist in the selection of personnel (van Drunen, 1997).

Although the number of participants was small, the papers were well received and it was decided to have a second, larger, congress the next year in Barcelona. Following this ﬁrst conference, the International Association of Psychotech- nics was founded with Claparède as its ﬁrst president, a post he held until his death in 1941. However, the actual legal incorporation was not until 1927, when the group merged with the International Association for Psychology and Psy- chotechnics (Gundlach, 1998). The name was changed to the International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP) in 1955 (Wilpert, 2000).

The association sponsored international meetings on an ir- regular basis until 1976, when an agreement was reached with the IUPsyS to hold congresses every fourth year on an alternating basis. The International Congresses of Applied Psychology are currently held every 4 years, 2 years after the preceding International Congress of Psychology, so there is a major international congress every 2 years.

At the beginning of the twenty-ﬁrst century, the IAAP had more than 2,000 members in over 90 countries. In 1978, the association began to organize its members into divisions that represent various ﬁelds of psychology; at the end of the twen- tieth century there were 14 such divisions. It was also in the late 1970s that the association began forming committees and task forces to implement its members’ initiatives. The mission of the IAAP is to advance scientiﬁc work in ap- plied psychology around the world. Its publications in the service of this mission include Applied Psychology: An Inter- national Review and the International Journal of Applied Psychology.
