# Two Distinct Psychologies of Emotion 161

follows the rest of the emotional train. Apart from the theo- logical implications for the a priori ability to make judgments of “good” and “bad,” psychological theory in the twentieth century places more emphasis on the conditions and processes that give rise to such judgments.

The American attack on James came primarily from E. B. Titchener, who also started with fundamental feelings, though in a more complex form and with a somewhat less unanalyz- able quality. The feeling is “in reality a complex process, composed of a perception or idea and affection, in which af- fection plays the principal part” (Titchener, 1896, p. 214).As far as the formation of an emotion is concerned, Titchener postulated that a train of ideas need be interrupted by a vivid feeling, that this feeling shall reﬂect the situation in the out- side world (as distinct from inner experience), and that the feeling shall be enriched by organic sensations, set up in the course of bodily adjustment to the incident. The emotion it- self, as experienced, consists of the stimulus association of ideas, some part of which are always organic sensations. For Titchener, sensations are truly based on external events and not “cognitive”; emotions occur in the presence of speciﬁc situations and conﬂicts.

None of the criticisms of James, piecemeal as they were, had much of an effect. The important and devastating attack came over a quarter century later from Walter B. Cannon (1914, 1927, 1929). Cannon used the attack on James to fur- ther his own relatively uninﬂuential neurophysiological theory, which postulated thalamically produced “feelings.” What did have impact was his evaluation of the James-Lange theory, which set the tone for the succeeding 50 years of psy- chological theory. Cannon’s major points were addressed to the question of visceral feedback as the basis for emotional behavior. Niceties as to whether Cannon’s target should be Lange’s emotional behavior or James’s emotional experience were forgotten in the light of the devastating and elegant con- tent of Cannon’s attack. It consisted of ﬁve major points: (1) Even when the viscera are separated from the central ner- vous system, that is, when visceral arousal cannot be per- ceived, some emotional behavior may still be present. (2) There does not seem to be any reasonable way to specify visceral changes that James had maintained should differ from emotion to emotion. (3) The perception and feedback from autonomic nervous system discharge is so diffuse and indistinct that one must assume that the viscera are essen- tially insensitive and could not possibly serve the differentia- tion function that James’s position requires. (4) Autonomic nervous system responses are very slow, and their slow onset, on the order of 1–2 seconds, would suggest that emotion should not occur within shorter intervals. (5) When visceral changes are produced by artiﬁcial means—for example, by