# Strengths of Persons and Communities 435

conference and recommendations for training psychologists to do community mental health work. In 1967, the Division of Community Psychology (Division 27) was established within the American Psychological Association (APA), and Robert Reiff was appointed the ﬁrst president (Meritt et al., 1997). The division evolved into its current structure as the Society for Community Research and Action as well as con- tinuing to be afﬁliated with the APA. These developments, along with creating biennial meetings and establishing com- munication methods to members, are discussed in Meritt et al. (1997).

Soon after the circulation of the Swampscott report, M. Brewster Smith and Nicholas Hobbs (1966) prepared a very important statement on the role of psychology and the community mental health center. They wrote, “The more closely the proposed [community mental health] centers become integrated with the life and institutions of their com- munities, the less the community can afford to turn over to mental health professionals its responsibility for guiding the center’s policies” (M. Smith & Hobbs, 1966, p. 501). This statement, endorsed by the Council of Representatives of the American Psychological Association in March 1966, inde- pendently afﬁrmed the values of the Swampscott participants. In sum, this section described the establishment of the ﬁeld of community psychology. We propose that earlier cul- tural and historical events and circumstances are important contexts to help understand the ﬁeld’s beginning at the 1965 Swampscott Conference. Furthermore, these same cultural and historical events have provided a context for the emer- gence of three major domains of the ﬁeld, whose histories are presented below. The ﬁrst, working with the strengths of per- sons and communities, has served as a guiding value for the ﬁeld’s development. Second, ecological theory has provided a theoretical framework for the work that community psy- chologists do. Finally, designing and conducting preventive interventions has become the primary way in which commu- nity psychology research has been translated into action. Each of these three will be explored below.