## LIGHTNER WITMER AND THE FOUNDING OF CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY

Wundt and many of the early psychologists regarded psy- chology as the scientiﬁc study of consciousness. As empiri- cists, they believed that all that we know comes to us through our senses. Accordingly, they were interested in how we ex- perience the world through our senses, in the acuity of our senses, and so on. When, in about 1884, Galton sought to measure intelligence, it seemed reasonable to do so by means of reaction time, sensory discrimination, height, weight, and other anthropometric indices. James McKeen Cattell, who was among the ﬁrst Americans to receive a doctorate from Wundt, was most interested in Galton’s work and elaborated upon it.

Cattell (1890) introduced the term mental test and sug- gested administering a standardized battery of 10 tests, such as Least Noticeable Difference in Weight, Reaction-Time for Sound, and Judgment of Ten Seconds. Subsequently, in 1921, Cattell went on to found the Psychological Corporation, which has since become one of the world’s largest suppliers of psychological tests, but before he did that he had as one of his students at the University of Pennsylvania a ﬂedgling psy- chologist by the name of Lightner Witmer (1867–1956).

to studying psychology, Witmer was teaching English at Rugby Academy, a prep school in Philadelphia, where one of his pupils had an articulation problem. Witmer had been considering a career in law or business, but this youngster’s difﬁculties with speech aroused his interest. Upon investigating further, he concluded the problem derived from a head injury suffered at the age of 2 and speculated that with proper diagnosis and treatment, this youngster could have avoided years of frustration and embarrassment. That psychology might be of help to those who had such problems was a factor in leading Witmer to major in the new science. Afterhereceivedhisdoctoratein1892,Witmerreturnedto the University of Pennsylvania and took over the psychology laboratory from Cattell, who left to assume a similar position at Columbia University. While teaching a course in psychol- ogy at Pennsylvania, Witmer was challenged by one of his students, Margaret Maguire, a teacher in the Philadelphia public schools, to use psychology to be of help to children with learning problems. Speciﬁcally, she asked Witmer to help a 14-year-old who seemed to be of normal intelligence yet was three grades retarded in spelling. Witmer put the ado- lescent through a diagnostic process and found a visual anom- aly that was partially corrected by glasses. Then, by having the child tutored, some improvement was effected, though the situation was considerably more complex than originally pre- sented (McReynolds, 1997; Witmer, 1907a).