# THE PROGRESS OF PERCEPTUAL RESEARCH

Where are we now? The study of the perceptual problem and the issue of noncorrespondence remains an open issue, but it has had an interesting historical evolution. Wundt was correct in his supposition that psychology needed psychological laws, since physical and physiological laws cannot explain many of the phenomena of consciousness. What Wundt rec- ognized was that the very fact of noncorrespondence between perception and the physical reality was what proved this fact and this same noncorrespondence is what often drives per- ceptual research. Köhler was wrong in saying that instances of noncorrespondence were relegated to the attic of the sci- ence. Instances of noncorrespondence or illusion are what serve as the motive power for a vast amount of perceptual in- vestigation. It is the unexpected and unexplainable illusion or distortion that catches the attention and interest of re- searchers. The reason that there are no great insights found in the category of phenomena that are currently called illusions is that once investigators explain any illusion and ﬁnd its un- derlying mechanism, it is no longer an illusion.

Consider the case of color afterimages, which Müller clas- siﬁed as an illusion in 1826. Afterimages would serve as stimuli for research by Fechner, Helmholtz, and Hering. Now that we understand the mechanisms that cause afterimages, however, these phenomena are looked on no longer as in- stances of illusion or distortion but rather as phenomena that illustrate the operation of the color coding system. Similarly, brightness contrast, which Luckiesh was still classifying as an illusion as late 1922, stimulated Hering and Mach to do re- search to explain these instances of noncorrespondence be- tween the percept and the physical state. By 1965, however, Ratliff would no longer see anything illusory in these phe- nomena and would merely look upon them as perceptual phe- nomena that demonstrate, and are clearly predictable from, the interactions of neural networks in the retina.

The study of perception is fraught with the instances of noncorrespondence and illusion that are no longer illusions. The fact that a mixture color, such as yellow, shows no evi- dence of the component red or green wavelengths that com- pose it was once considered an example of an illusion. Later, once the laws of color mixture had been established, the expectation was built that we should expect fusion and blending in perception, which meant that the fact that the individual notes that make up a chord or a sound complex could be distinguished from one another and did not blend

together into a seamless whole would also be considered to be an illusion. Since we now understand the physiology underly- ing both the visual and the auditory processes, we fail to see either noncorrespondence or illusion in either of these phenomena.

Apparent motion (Wertheimer’s phi phenomena), percep- tual organization, stereoscopic depth perception, singleness of vision, size constancy, shape constancy, brightness con- stancy, color constancy, shape from shading, adaptation to heat, cold, light, dark, touch and smell, the nonlinearity of judged stimulus magnitudes, intensity contrasts, brightness assimilation, color assimilation, pop-out effects, ﬁlling-in of the blind spot, stabilized image fading, the Purkinje color shift, and many more such phenomena all started out as “illu- sions” and instances of noncorrespondence between percep- tion and reality. As we learn more about these phenomena we hear less about “illusion” or “distortion” and more about “mechanism” and “normal sensory processing.”

The psychological study of sensation and perception re- mains extremely eclectic. Perceptual researchers still are quick to borrow methods and viewpoints from other disci- plines. Physical, physiological, optical, chemical, and bio- chemical techniques and theories have all been absorbed into the study of sensory phenomena. It might be argued that a physiologist could study sensory phenomena as well as a psy- chologist, and, as the history of the discipline shows, if we are talking about matters of sensory transduction and reception, or single cell responses, this is sometimes true. David Hubel and Torston Wiesel were physiologists whose study of the cortical encoding and analysis of visual properties did as much to advance sensory psychology as it did to advance physiology. Georg von Bekesy (1899–1972), who also won the Nobel Prize for physiology, did so for his studies of the analysis of frequency by the ear, a contribution that is appre- ciated equally by physiology and psychology.Although some references refer to Bekesy as a physiologist, he spent two- thirds of his academic career in a psychology department and was initially trained as an engineer. Thus, sensory and per- ceptual research still represents an amalgam of many research areas, with numerous crossover theories and techniques.

It is now clear that on the third major theme, the distinction between sensation and perception, with a possible strong sep- aration between the two in terms of theories and methodolog- ical approach, there is at least a consensus. Unfortunately the acceptance of this separation has virtually led to a schism that may well split this research area. Psychology has accepted the distinction between sensation (which is primary, physiologi- cal, and structural) and perception (which is based on phenomenological and behavioral data). These two areas have virtually become subdisciplines. Sensory research re- mains closely tied to the issue of capturing a stimulus and