# 342 Clinical Psychology

reluctant to become involved in what many of its members considered extraneous issues, such as what the qualiﬁcations of a psychological examiner were and whether clinical psy- chologists should be supported when their expertise was challenged by psychiatrists. Not surprisingly, while there may have been a need for the services of clinical psycholo- gists in the society at large, at this stage in the development of the ﬁeld there was little demand.

Accordingly, the training of clinicians was haphazard and withoutanyuniformity.Afewuniversitiesprovidededucation for clinicians, but most professionals had to take what courses they could in college and seek further training on the job in mental hospitals and clinics. In the former setting, they thought of themselves as primarily researchers in abnormal functioning; in the latter, they regarded themselves as mainly psychometricians and educators with children. (It should be remembered that the ﬁrst individually administered intelli- gencescalestandardizedonadults,theWechsler-Bellevue,did not become available until 1939.)With these sobering qualiﬁ- cations stated, let us note some of the positive inﬂuences.

Morton Prince (1854–1929), a neurologist at Tufts Med- ical College, founded the Journal of Abnormal Psychology in 1906 and served as its editor for many years. He was particu- larly interested in hysteria and multiple personalities and thought that the same processes that govern learning can be used to explain abnormal behaviors. Neuroses, for example, were often perversions of associations, because neurotics often had difﬁculties in recalling the past. Psychotherapies, he concluded, are actually different ways of educating people to associate differently and thus adjust better to their environ- ments (Prince, 1909–1910). While working in Boston, Prince met with a congenial circle of physicians and psychologists, including Boris Sidis and William James, to discuss psy- chopathology and its treatment. He was sympathetic to psy- choanalysis and through his journal helped to make it known. In 1927, he founded the Harvard Psychological Clinic, and by making it a unit of the Department of Psychology, he sought to ensure that the study of personality and psy- chopathology was regarded as part of psychology rather than psychiatry.

William James received a visit in 1906 from a former mental patient who had written a book about his experiences in treatment. The book was titled A Mind That Found Itself, and its author was Clifford Beers (1908). James read the manuscript and wrote a letter of endorsement, which be- came part of the book’s introduction and which served to bring others to Beers’s support. Clifford Beers (1876–1943) wanted to establish a movement that would make the public aware of mental illness and willing to provide for its allevi- ation and treatment. This became known as the mental

hygiene movement, and Beers founded the ﬁrst of its many societies in Connecticut in 1908.

That same year a prominent social worker, Julia Lathrop, met with a psychiatrist, William Healy (1869–1963), in Chicago to consider what new approaches to juvenile delin- quency might be of help. At that time, judges disposed of delinquents with nothing more than the results of a physical examination to guide them. Certainly their decisions could be better informed, and as a ﬁrst step, research might be con- ducted to determine the causes of delinquency. Healy went off to get ideas by meeting with James and other psycholo- gists and by visiting the clinics of Witmer and Goddard. In- ﬂuenced by the favorable recommendation of William James, Julia Lathrop asked Healy to be the director of the new clinic, which, when it opened in 1909, was called the Juvenile Psy- chopathic Institute and today is known as the Institute for Juvenile Research. Its original staff consisted of Healy; a clinical psychologist, Grace Fernald (who later moved to California, where she developed innovative practices for remediating reading disorders in children and where a school was named in her honor by UCLA); and a secretary. Many consider it the ﬁrst child-guidance clinic in the world.

Anumber of judges visited Healy’s clinic, with the idea in mind to assess whether a similar operation could work with their courts. During the summers of 1912 and 1913, Healy taught a course at Harvard describing his work, and in 1917 he and Augusta Bronner, a clinical psychologist whom he married, moved to Boston to establish the Judge Baker Guid- ance Clinic. The focus of these clinics afﬁliated with the courts was to evaluate children by means of psychological tests, mainly intelligence tests, and other means in order to make recommendations to juvenile-court judges regarding the disposition of their cases. Healy, it should be added, thought of himself not only as a psychiatrist but also as a clin- ical psychologist; he developed two performance measures of intelligence, one of which, the Healy Picture Completion Test, was quite popular in its day.

During World War I, Robert Yerkes (1876–1956), a com- parative psychologist at Yale (who later had primate labora- tories, now at Emory University, named in his honor) and also a clinician who made the Binet into a point scale (Yerkes, Bridges, & Hardwick, 1915), chaired a committee of psy- chologists that was asked to develop a group-administered scale of intelligence for the army. This committee produced the Army Alpha, a verbal scale; the Army Beta, which was nonverbal and intended for those who could not read English; and the Personal Data Sheet, a neurotic inventory designed by Robert Woodworth that was one of the earliest personality questionnaires (Yerkes, 1919). Almost two million men were assessed with the Army Alpha and Beta tests, and Yerkes

believed the prestige of psychology had been enhanced by its contributions to the war effort. (See Weiner’s chapter on as- sessment in this volume for further details on the testing movement at this time.)

On December 28, 1917, an organization known as the American Association of Clinical Psychologists (AACP) was founded by J. E. Wallin, Leta Hollingworth, Rudolf Pintner, and three others. Aside from conviviality, the AACP came into being because clinicians wanted a group that would be forceful in addressing their concerns, such as mental tests being administered by nonqualiﬁed examiners and clinicians gaining legal recognition as experts in the determination of mental retardation and psychopathology.

Robert Yerkes, the president of the APA at the time and also a member of AACP, negotiated with the dissidents and convinced them their interests would be best served through the APA. Accordingly the AACP went out of existence in 1919 and became the Clinical Section of the APA, the ﬁrst of what were to become the many divisions of that organization. About the only activity of the AACP during its brief life was to sponsor a symposium at the 1918 APA convention. The room was so jammed with people that it was not possible to present this program, but the papers were published the next year in the Journal of Applied Psychology. David Mitchell is regarded as the ﬁrst to earn his living through private prac- tice; he obtained his PhD from the University of Pennsylva- nia (Meltzer, 1966; Mitchell, 1919, 1931) and reported that his treatment approach involved strengthening and eliminat- ing habits.

The number of child-guidance clinics began to grow dur- ing the 1920s with the support of the Commonwealth Fund, established by the Harkness family which also funded the National Committee for Mental Hygiene to seek the causes and prevention of juvenile delinquency. These clinics, usu- ally staffed by psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, and social workers and concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of child problems of all sorts, from infancy through adoles- cence, served as additional sources of employment for clini- cians. By 1930, there were about 500 clinics in the United States offering psychiatric services, of which about 125 were child guidance; by 1936, there were 676 psychiatric clinics and 87 psycho-educational clinics, the latter mostly afﬁliated with colleges and directed by psychologists.

In 1924, the psychiatrist Karl Menninger met with a group of colleagues at the Institute for Juvenile Research to form the American Orthopsychiatric Association. Its ﬁrst president was William Healy. Although voting membership in the group was initially restricted to psychiatrists, this restriction was dropped within 2 years. Among the clinical psycholo- gists in this organization were Lightner Witmer, Augusta