# Kraepelin

Investigation of psychopathology using the methods of scien- tiﬁc experimental psychology began with the work of Emil Kraepelin (1856–1926), who established a laboratory in Heidelberg in 1890, where he conducted experimental stud- ies of psychiatric patients. His work attracted others to join his laboratory, notably British psychologist/anthropologist William Rivers, and American psychiatrist, August Hoch. Rivers(1895)andHoch(1904)publishedtranslationsofsome of the work done at Heidelberg, but much of Kraepelin’s

experimental work, which was published from 1895 onward inhisseriesofvolumesPsychlogischenArbeiten,stillremains untranslated (Kraepelin, 1915).

Kraepelin’s work was guided by the basic assumption that all psychopathological behaviors arise from some defect in nervous system function. The task was to measure nervous system functions as carefully and quantitatively as possible. The kind of defect discovered could help explain the clinical phenomena that had led to the diagnosis. Measuring proce- dures were limited to those that could be applied externally (i.e., without invasion of tissue). The use of experimental methods and quantitative measurement in medical research generally was still in an early stage. It is noteworthy that Kraepelin had no method for observing or measuring brain functions in the living human being. Modern methods of electroencephalography and brain imaging lay far in the fu- ture. Postmortem examination of the brain provided opportu- nity to measure structure, but not function.

Kraepelin and his colleagues regarded experimental psy- chology and experimental physiology as a unitary domain of study. The functions examined included motor movements, reaction time to various kinds of stimulus, memory, word associations, and mental work (simple calculations). Control comparisons were made between patients and nonpatients. The diagnostic categories of the patients involved included paresis, dementia praecox (schizophrenia), neurasthenia, and epilepsy. Although Kraepelin emphasized quantitative mea- surement, no statistical tests available could assess the relia- bility of the differences that he found, which limited him to reporting absolute differences. In this respect, too, his situa- tion was the same as that generally prevalent in medical research at that time.

The investigation of psychophysical and physiological factors in mental illness became a continuing theme in the ensuing decades. Psychological laboratories were estab- lished in the early twentieth century at McLean Hospital in Massachusetts, the Worcester State Hospital, and the New York State Psychiatric Institute. Some laboratories were situ- ated in academic institutions, notably at Yale University, where Edward Scripture conducted studies on reaction time in various diagnostic groups. Hunt (1936) and Shakow (1971) include useful reviews of the development of experi- mental psychopathology during this period.

With increasing hegemony of psychoanalysis in American academic psychiatry in the period immediately following World War II, experimental research into psychopathology experienced a decline. One triumphant analyst chronicled this change with the assertion that “psychological apparatus had found its way to the lumber rooms of psychiatric clinics, covered with dust and rusting away without having left