# International Psychology

speculated that most of the psychologists who ever lived and who are now living can be found in the United States. Rosenzweig (1984) noted that whereas the American Psycho- logical Association was only one of 44 member societies belonging to the International Union of Psychological Science, “membership of the APA comes close to equaling the membership of all the other 43 associations together.” Within this context it was hardly surprising that U.S. psy- chologists were accused of being “provincial, insular, and ego-centered” (Sexton & Misiak, 1976). Brandt (1970) asserted that U.S. psychology disregards almost completely research done in other countries and published in languages other than English. In his view, there was no English- language market for research that conﬂicted with U.S. psy- chology. Few university libraries subscribed to journals published abroad, and even fewer U.S. psychologists regu- larly read non-English publications. More recently, Draguns (2001) contended that the development of international psy- chology is obstructed by the “massive disregard” of contribu- tions published in languages other than English.

In 1977, Diaz-Guerrero (1977) wrote that “the average American psychologist, in spite of having the greatest re- sources and possibly the highest levels of technical training, may be much more ethnocentric and parochial than others” (p. 935). Ardilla (1982b) commented that many of the values and assumptions in English-speaking countries seem alien to the Latin American way of thinking. Russell (1984) recalls an incident when, in toasting colleagues at an international din- ner, a Mexican psychologist said, “We Mexican psycholo- gists are very humble because we are so far away from God and so close to the United States” (p. 1021). Such remarks may have been made only partly in jest. More recently, Jing (2000) noted that “what goes in the name of psychology today mainly reﬂects the theories and ideas of the United States” (p. 579).

While the perceptions of U.S. psychology were often mixed, efforts persisted to keep open and widen the channels of communication (Rosenzweig, 1979). Russell (1984) re- calls how at the 1957 Congress of International Psychology in Brussels, a time when he served as APA executive ofﬁcer, he was approached by A. R. Luria, the representative of the Society of Psychologists in the USSR. Luria expressed con- cern not about Soviet psychologists receiving an adequate number of U.S. publications (which were translated by the USSR government for those of his colleagues who could not read English) but about the fact that very few Soviet publica- tions were available in translation for U.S. consumption. The Brussels exchange was eventually followed 20 years later by an article in the American Psychologist comparing American