---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 190d5762663f5ee04d3b627ef02099ee33f252e3
title: untitled
---
## The Neo-Behaviorists: Guthrie, Tolman, and Hull

Edwin R. Guthrie (1886–1959), the “most starkly empiricist of all the neo-behaviorists” (J. A. Mills, 1998, p. 79), deﬁned mind as “a mode of behavior, namely, that behavior which changeswithuseorpractice-behavior,inotherwords,thatex- hibits learning” (E. R. Guthrie, 1935/1960, p. 3). The ability to learn, as C. Lloyd Morgan had suggested, characterized the possession of mind in living creatures. Guthrie’s theory of learning was deceptively simple: Learning occurs through the development of associations between stimuli and responses. These associations are formed by contiguity: “Acombination of stimuli which has accompanied a movement will on its re- currence tend to be followed by that movement” (p. 23). He rejected Thorndike’s laws of effect and of exercise, claiming insteadthattheapparentlygradualnatureoflearningwasare- sult of a series of one-trial situations in which movements, small muscle responses, rather than acts were learned in re- sponsetostimuli.Theroleoftheconsequencesofresponding,

whether satisfying or annoying, was to change the stimulus situation, not to strengthen some unobservable bond between stimulus and response.

In contrast to E. R. Guthrie’s molecular approaches to learning, Edward ChaceTolman (1886–1959) offered a molar theory of the psychology of learning. For E. R. Guthrie and for J. B. Watson, descriptions of learned behavior were conﬁned to descriptions of stimulus events and responses. Tolman, in contrast, proposed a theory that interpreted behav- ior in terms of “motive, purpose and determining tendency” (Tolman, 1922, p. 53). For Tolman, cognitive events inter- vened between the antecedent stimuli and their behavioral consequences. Learning and performance were not synony- mous (Innis, 1999; Kimble, 1985; Tolman & Honzik, 1930); performance was the observable behavior, while learning was the hypothesized state that accounted for the change in be- havior. Tolman described the action of intervening variables on the functional relationship between the independent and dependent variables; that is, between the environmental stim- uli and physiological state of the organism on the one side and the overt behavior on the other (Tolman, 1932, p. 2; see also Innis, 1999; Kimble, 1985). The most important intervening variables were cognitions, deﬁned as expectations about the relationship between signs, stimuli, and signiﬁcates, rewards or goal objects (J. A. Mills, 1998; Smith, 1986). Tolman hy- pothesized the formation of “cognitive maps” or cognitive representations of the environment in rats learning a maze. These cognitive maps could be empirically demonstrated in maze experiments in which, for example, blocking a previ- ously used route to a goal resulted in rats choosing the next shortest path to the goal (Tolman, Ritchie, & Kalish, 1946). Clark Hull (1884–1952) proposed a formal logico- deductive theory of behavior: “In science an observed event is said to be explained when the proposition expressing it has been logically derived from a set of deﬁnitions and postulates coupled with certain observed conditions antecedent to the event” (Hull, 1943, p. 3). Hull’s theoretical treatment of psy- chology consisted of a set of postulates and corollaries and their mathematical statements to enable quantitative predic- tions about behavior. Hull’s goal was to develop psychology as a natural science by demonstrating that behavioral phe- nomena obey universal, quantitative laws that can be stated by equations comparable to physical laws, “of the type gov- erning the law of falling bodies” (Hull, 1950, p. 221). Even centuries after Kant, Hull was striving to demonstrate that psychology could indeed become a science that met the same standards as the physical sciences. For example, Hull (1934a, 1934b) proposed that the serial position effect in learning a list of words (the phenomena that errors occur more fre- quently in learning and in the recall of words from the middle

of a serial list) exempliﬁes the same general law that describes the pattern of errors made by rats learning a com- plex maze (more errors occur in the center of the maze than at the start and the ﬁnish).

Hull’s research program was directed toward the discov- ery of such laws and the formulation of the equations that described them. His theory of behavior formulated theoreti- cal variables in operational terms, deﬁned them by equations, and predicted experimental results. Experiments by Hull, Tolman, and their students were designed to provide crucial tests of predictions from their respective theories. For exam- ple, Hull’s theory hypothesized that learning occurred through reinforcement, deﬁned in terms of the extent to which reinforcement reduced a motivational drive; Tolman, on the other hand, argued that reinforcement in this sense was unnecessary for learning (Tolman & Honzik, 1930). Resolu- tion of such theoretical issues was difﬁcult; moreover, the precise predictions from Hull’s formal theory were fre- quently not conﬁrmed, and criticism of the theory began to mount from a variety of sources, including Hull’s own stu- dents (J. A. Mills, 1998). Differences between the theories of Hull and Tolman came to seem less substantive and more a preference for particular terminology and the reiﬁcation of intervening variables (Kendler, 1952).
