---
source_path: untitled.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 289367eb7462a2fd3c45173aaf0e1e898284bd50
title: untitled
---
# MMPI

The Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory was con- structed during the late 1930s by Starke Hathaway (1903– 1995), a psychologist, and J. Charnley McKinley, a psy- chiatrist, while they worked together at the University of Minnesota hospitals. Hathaway and McKinley undertook this task for the purpose of developing a group-administered pencil-and-paper measure that would assist in assigning pa- tients to diagnostic categories. The measure they produced was ﬁrst published in ﬁnished form in 1943 (Hathaway & McKinley, 1943) and has since then become the most widely used and researched of all personality assessment instru- ments. The manner in which Hathaway and McKinley con- structed the MMPI was noteworthy for their total reliance on empirical keying in the selection of test items. Empirical key- ing was a radical departure from the logical keying approach that had characterized construction of the Woodworth and Bernreuter tests and other early adjustment scales and trait measures as well. In logical keying, items are selected or devised on the basis of some reasonable expectation or subjective impression that they are likely to measure a partic- ular personality characteristic. Empirical keying, by con- trast, involves selecting items according to how well in fact they differentiate among groups of people previously identi- ﬁed as having various psychological disorders or personality characteristics.

The original MMPI of Hathaway and McKinley was expanded over the years by the addition of many new scales and subscales, and an extensive revision and re-norming process produced the MMPI-2 (Butcher, Dahlstrom, Graham, Tellegen, & Kaemmer, 1989) and an adolescent version, the MMPI-A(Butcher et al., 1992). Having been developed with patient populations and for clinical purposes, the MMPI/ MMPI-2/MMPI-Ais generally regarded as being more suited for evaluating psychological disturbance than for elucidating normal variations in personality characteristics. Neverthe- less, the instrument has proved valuable in a variety of con- texts and is often used by psychologists doing forensic, neuropsychological, and personnel evaluations as well as mental health assessments.
