---
source_path: using_competency_models_to_improve_hrm_mohammad_javad_dehghan_ashkezari.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: f0f0401e1c42993e41d452f6e560b20bf75cb470
title: using_competency_models_to_improve_hrm_mohammad_javad_dehghan_ashkezari
---
# Model Refinement

As a first step, many enterprises and organizations create a CST which consists of human resources staff, top executives and employees who possess a deep know-how of the jobs included in the model. This team has a responsibility for overseeing the whole initiative. A proficiency scale is prepared in order to define superior, average and marginal performance for the jobs included in the model. The CST develops a preliminary list of competencies which serve as a basis for building the model. The creation of such a list can be successful, through reviewing competency models that have already been developed by other organizations and the organization’s own business considering strategies. In this step, information is collected on what competencies are needed to perform the jobs in the model by conducting interviews, focus groups, and surveys with employees and managers. The CST develops an initial competency model based on the information collected in the previous step by performing quantitative analysis of the survey results and content analysis of the themes contained in the interview and focus group results. It is important to check that the initial model is accurate by conducting additional focus groups, interviews, or surveys with groups of managers and employees who did not participate in the defining of the initial model. The same types of analysis used in developing the initial competency model are used by the CST to refine the model. Validation efforts begin with converting the competencies into a questionnaire that can be used for rating individual effectiveness. The individuals identified earlier as superior, effective, and marginal performers are rated on this questionnaire by
