data/clean/what_is_design_thinking_and_why_is_it_important__chunk0045.md, before:

# Razzouk & Shute

actions, and goals) of a novice and an expert architect. Using protocol analysis, the researchers investigated concurrent cognitive actions of designers and found sig- nificant differences in output between novice and expert designers. The protocol was divided into segments. A cognitive segment consisted of cognitive actions that appeared to occur simultaneously. They found that the design protocol of the expert included 2,916 actions (i.e., chunks) and 348 segments, whereas the nov- ice’s protocol included 1,027 actions and 122 segments. Each segment consisted of 8 cognitive actions on average. Considering that the same amount of time was given to both participants, the expert’s design protocol was 2.8 times as rich as the novice’s in terms of actions. There were also 2.8 times as many segments in the expert designer’s session as in the novice’s. Therefore, the expert had more overall fluency in relation to divergent thinking skills. The expert’s cognitive actions con- tinuously rose throughout the activity, while the novice’s cognitive activity started at a peak and then declined. The authors also found that the expert seemed to have more control of his cognitive activity compared to the novice. Because the expert’s cognitive actions are well organized, he was able to govern his performance more efficiently than the novice.

These findings align with those by Tang and Gero (2001), who found substan- tial differences between a novice and an expert architect. Using a retrospective protocol analysis, the authors found differences between the novice and expert designers in relation to four design levels: (a) the physical level, which refers to the instances that have direct relevance to the external world, comprising drawing and looking actions; (b) the perceptual level, which concerns the instances of attending to visual-spatial features/relationships in an automatic perceptual mech- anism; (c) the functional level, which relates to the instances of functional refer- ences mapped between visual-spatial features/relationships and abstract concepts, including meanings and functions; and (d) the conceptual level, which represents the instances that process abstract concepts and the instances that process physical and perceptual actions. The expert seemed to create more meaning at the physical and perceptual levels than the novice.

Differences between novices and experts performing design-related problems were also studied by Göker (1997). The author examined novices and experts on a task involving computer-simulated construction of machines. Göker found that the experts, skilled in the use of computer simulations, did not reason toward a design concept in an abstract way, but relied more on their experience and visual information. In contrast, novices depended more on abstract reasoning.

Commit message:

feat: citations UI/downloads scaffolding; eval + CI; ignore large artifacts (#1)
* feat(api): add minimal conversation memory + query rewrite

* chore: clean up ignored files

* chore: checkpoint (exclude index/ + data/raw); add .gitignore

data/clean/what_is_design_thinking_and_why_is_it_important__chunk0045.md, after:

---
source_path: what_is_design_thinking_and_why_is_it_important.md
pages: n/a-n/a
chunk_id: 82f4ee38d7229af6f5d82cfa63cd21e3f63f1bf2
title: what_is_design_thinking_and_why_is_it_important
---
# Design Thinking and Its Importance

strategies. However, both expert and novice used similar bottom-up (working- backward) problem-solving strategies.

Christiaans and Dorst (1992) conducted protocol studies of junior and senior college students in an industrial design course. They found that some students, mostly the juniors, got trapped gathering information rather than progressing to solution generation, but most of the senior students did not face this difficulty. That is, senior design students did not gather as much information, but they were able to solve the given problem. They asked for less information, processed it directly, and built up an image of the problem. They also prioritized activities early in the process.

A similar finding was reported by Gunther and Ehrlenspiel (1999), who con- ducted a set of experiments with a total of 20 novice and expert designers of mechanical devices. The researchers found that experts were able to clarify a task in a shorter time, whereas novices had to invest much more time in clarification. These findings (i.e., Christiaans & Dorst, 1992; Gunther & Ehrlenspiel, 1999) cor- roborate findings from Atman, Chimka, Bursic, and Nachtman (1999), who con- ducted protocol analysis studies of engineering students. They found that novices (i.e., freshmen with no design experience) spent a large portion of their time defin- ing the problem and did not produce high-quality designs. Therefore, and similar to the industrial design students in the Christiaans and Dorst (1992) study, some of the freshmen engineering students in the Atman et al. study were stuck at the level of defining the problem, which hindered their progress in the design process. However, senior students defined the problem adequately, which in turn resulted in good designs.

Ahmed, Wallace, and Blessing (2003) studied differences between the behav- iors of novice and experienced designers in engineering. The authors found clear differences between the behavior of new graduate entrants (i.e., novices) to the engineering design profession and experienced designers. The novices used trial-and-error techniques of generating and implementing a design modification, evaluating it, and then generating another evaluation through several iterations. Experienced engineers, however, made a preliminary evaluation of their tentative design decisions before implementing them and making a final evaluation. In con- trast to the novices’ trial-and-error approach, the experienced designers employed integrated design strategies.

In 2001, Seitamaa-Hakkarainen and Hakkarainen investigated the relationships between visual and technical designing using qualitative analysis. That is, they examined differences between two novices and two experts in the field of weaving design. Protocol analysis results revealed that the experts integrated the visual ele- ments (e.g., color, size, patterns) and technical elements (e.g., material) of weav- ing, and generally considered them in a parallel way during the design process. Iteration between the visual and the technical space was a significant aspect of the experts’ design process. The experts continuously moved from one design space to another to carry out very detailed processes of search for design solutions. In contrast, the novices organized their process around the composition space and rarely moved to the construction space to explore how visual ideas could be real- ized in weaving.

Similarly, using data from protocol studies, Kavakli and Gero (2002) compared the cognitive performances/actions (i.e., looking, perceptual and functional

339

Downloaded from

http://rer.aera.net

at AERA on October 2, 2012
