# Design Thinking and Its Importance

drawn as informing further design efforts (Do & Gross, 2001; Lloyd & Scott, 1995). Designing often begins with a diagrammatic depiction that is gradually transformed to more complex graphic representations by adding detail. These design diagrams facilitate the designer’s reflection, dialogue, and self-critique and therefore serve the purpose of representing and testing the designer intent. In other words, diagrams serve as a primary vehicle for thinking and solving problems (Do & Gross, 2001; Nagai & Noguchi, 2003).

Braha and Reich (2003) viewed the design process as a generic process where designers modify either the tentative or current design or the requirements and specifications, based on new information that has become available. This ongoing process of modification is performed in order to remove discrepancies and estab- lish a fit between the problem space, expressed through requirements and specifi- cations, and the proposed design solution.

In 2000, Suwa, Gero, and Purcell argued that designing is a situated act, which means that designers invent design issues or requirements in a way that is situated in the environment in which they design. The authors found a strong bidirectional correlation between unexpected discoveries and the invention of issues and require- ments. Unexpected discoveries are those instances when a designer perceives something new in a previously drawn element of a solution concept. Not only do unexpected discoveries become the driving force for the invention of issues or requirements, but also the occurrence of invention tends to cause new unexpected discoveries. These results emphasize the importance of rapid alternation between different modes of activity during the design process (e.g., drawing sketches and conceiving of design issues or requirements that are dynamically related to one another). This also explains the opportunistic nature of design activity, as the designer pursues issues and requirements in an evolving solution concept.

According to Dorner (1999), several forms of thinking can be observed in designing. Design starts as a cloudy idea about how the design/product should look like and how it should work. With time, this idea crystallizes and transforms into a clear and complete image of the product. The cloudy idea comes from something that the designer already knows about the product. This knowledge can be a source of analogies. The second form of thinking involves the sketches and models that bring the cloudy idea to a more concrete form. Sketches and models clarify the characteristics of the product, helping to form a specific line of thought that facil- itates the development process and forms the basis for the design thinking process. The third form of design thinking is the “picture-word cycle,” which involves putting ideas into words that helps the designer clarify and elaborate on ideas. However, whatever the form of thinking, the design thinker should demonstrate specific characteristics in addition to creativity.