# the

One of the most important lessons I’ve learned since beginning to run Montis is the importance of leading with kindness, compassion, and empathy. I have learned that what is said is not as important as how it is said, and terminating an employee is a perfect example of this in practice. In the instance of my first termination, I could have been more proactive in addressing the employee’s performance issues in an empathetic manner well before the termination. There was clearly a feeling that this employee was not in the right seat, including constant frustration from me and other members of the team around lack of responsiveness, accountability, and work product, and there was no clear way to get this employee where they needed to be. We didn’t have sufficient human capital management in place, which is common for many early-stage search fund companies.

Early in my journey, I leaned heavily on legal counsel for terminations, working closely with lawyers to ensure compliance and minimize liability. We were so concerned about legal risks, however, that it made the process overly formal and less empathetic than it could have been. Over time, as I became more experienced, the role of lawyers in the termination process certainly evolved. For recent terminations, legal involvement has been minimal, focusing mainly on standard documentation like separation agreements and release of claim waivers.

Today, Montis has a robust framework for both hiring and firing, grounded in EOS principles. Employees are evaluated quarterly using the GWC framework (Get it, Want it, and Capacity to do the job) and Montis’s core values—discipline, exceeding expectations, proactivity, team orientation, and empathy (DEPTH). These metrics help identify trends and guide real-time feedback, ensuring that the data supports the feelings around performance; then, feedback is given in as compassionate a manner as possible. We are also a big proponent of significant one-on-one time with direct reports, which is another great conduit for feedback, both positive (which most leaders and managers unconsciously ignore) and constructive.

Empathy is important in difficult decisions and discussions. Firing has a very negative connotation, but it can ultimately be a positive experience if done the right way. Termination is generally the culmination of an employee not having the right energy or aptitude for the role, and separation from the role and company can (and likely will) be a